Bill Moyers Interview with Peter Drucker
(Transcript from BillMoyers.com)

BILL MOYERS: Good evening, I'm Bill Moyers. Looking at all the men who have come and gone in the White House since you've lived in this country, what have you learned about presidential leadership?

PETER DRUCKER: That it can be exercised in a great number of ways. FDR and Harry Truman and Eisenhower were very different people. I think that's the main lesson. And the second one is, "Beware charisma."

BILL MOYERS: Charisma? Why?

PETER DRUCKER: Yes. It is the great delusion of the century. The most charismatic leaders in history were named, respectively, Hitler, Stalin and Mao. What matters is leadership; charisma is almost always misleadership.

BILL MOYERS: Misleadership?

PETER DRUCKER: Yes.

BILL MOYERS: Why? What does it do to us?

PETER DRUCKER: Partly because it covers up the lack of substance, partly because it creates arrogance, and partly because it creates paranoia if you're not successful.

BILL MOYERS: Then, what are the qualities of leadership that we ought to expect in a president?

PETER DRUCKER: Well, if you look at the ones that have been successful, they thought through what the assignment is. They thought through what the one job is that really has to be done, instead of having a problem. And it's certain firmness. There is only one objective, and only one standard anytime; demanding of themselves and demanding of others a very high standard. And it's a creation of trust because "you mean what you say" is maybe the wrong word because FDR never meant what he said, but everybody always knew exactly what he meant. He didn't say it, but people trusted -- you knew you couldn't trust him personally, he was as slippery as an eel, and treacherous, but you knew you could trust that he was going to accomplish what you knew he was going to accomplish.

BILL MOYERS: They have a goal.

PETER DRUCKER: They have a goal. I am very dubious about all the president's challenge about "leadership" because what people really want is somebody who substitutes manner for substance.

BILL MOYERS: You think that's happening?

PETER DRUCKER: I think it's always happened. We've always had actors.

BILL MOYERS: Ceremony instead of accomplishment?

PETER DRUCKER: But I think there is a lot of desire for, "Let's not face up to tough ones. Let's paint them over."

BILL MOYERS: Doesn't the real leader say, we've got some hard choices -- it's almost a cliche now -- and educate us to make those choices.

PETER DRUCKER: Yes. Leadership is performance, and not personality.

BILL MOYERS: Performance.

PETER DRUCKER: Yes.

BILL MOYERS: What you accomplish.

PETER DRUCKER: What you accomplish and what you enable or force others to perform. There's that great function of making incredible demands, not making it easy for people. Those unbelievable demands which, whether it was FDR, or Truman, or Eisenhower, or any of the people in business, or the educational people I've seen who were first rate, make on themselves and on others. Believe me, I have yet to see a performer in a leadership position who is a nice guy.

BILL MOYERS: You are one of the three foreigners whom the Japanese consider responsible for the recovery of their economy.

PETER DRUCKER: Largely because I knew Japanese art.

BILL MOYERS: How's that? I don't understand.

PETER DRUCKER: It's through Japanese art that I got a rapport, and understood them, and knew what that fellow didn't tell me. You know, the most important thing in communication is to hear what isn't being said. And when that fellow in my first seminar said something, I could give him an answer. He said, "How come you understand?" And I said, "You told me." Well, I somehow understood them.

BILL MOYERS: Because of your interest in art?

PETER DRUCKER: I think so. I said to them three things. I said, "First, don't do anything that doesn't fit; don't do anything that does not fit your tradition -- it won't work. What are the elements in your tradition that can be building blocks of a modern society? And the second thing," I said, "is that you have to learn to treat people as a resource." Japan, as you perhaps know, had the worst history of contempt for people of any society. And I said, "You have to change that. From now on people are a resource, and you have to ask not what is the cost, but what is the yield."

BILL MOYERS: And what is it?

PETER DRUCKER: The yield, what they can produce. "And the third thing," I said, "is that a business exists because the consumer is willing to pay you his money. You run a business to satisfy the consumer." That isn't marketing. That goes way beyond marketing. But I helped them a lot with management structures, the technical things, but my important contributions were very simple. Things that I've been saying to my American clients there's only one difference. My American clients were very happy, but didn't do a damn thing -- the Japanese did it.

BILL MOYERS: So, what advice do you give young people out there listening? They're trying to get ready for the 21st century.

PETER DRUCKER: Know your strength. The most important thing is to know what you are good at, and very few people know that. All of us know what we are not good at. What are you good at? And the reason why so few of us know it is that what we are good at usually comes so easy. You know, you sweat over what's hard to do. What we are good at, learn to feedback, to build learning into your life. That's the first thing. And the second thing is know when to change. There are certain situations in which you don't stay. A situation which corrupts; you don't stay.

BILL MOYERS: Better to go off the board on your own, even if you're not sure there's water down there.

PETER DRUCKER: And if you no longer learn anything, if it no longer challenges you. If you feel, "I got only 20 years to retirement," then get out. And the last thing I say, accept the fact that with modern life expectancies, if you are knowledgeable, you will have a second career. Yesterday's farmer, at age 43, was physically broken, literally so -- before electricity -- hit by a horse, beaten by horse, with that heavy physical labor he was an old man at age 43. His great-grandson who sits behind a desk with a spreadsheet, the greatest occupational hazard is hemorrhoids. And 20 years as a market researcher for the toy company is too long. Then you begin to play games. The typically degenerative diseases of early middle-age -- the bottle; the affair with the 19-year old; or the psychoanalyst's couch. Of which the psychoanalyst's couch costs the most and takes the longest. The results are the same, pretty much. When you reach that point, change careers. You need to be repotted. You need new challenges.

BILL MOYERS: So, do you look forward to the 21st century?

PETER DRUCKER: I don't know from where I'm going to watch it, but I look forward to it from wherever I will be to watch it. But I'm exceedingly happy that I'm not 20 again. It's a very harsh world for young people.

BILL MOYERS: Harsh?

PETER DRUCKER: Yes.

BILL MOYERS: In what way?

PETER DRUCKER: First, too many opportunities, and too much pressure. Everybody has to have a success, has to be a success. This was not so in my time. If you were born a farmer's son, you were a farmer. If you were born a blue-collar worker's son, you were a blue-collar worker, in most cases, even in this country which had more mobility than any other. Sometimes when I look at the young, at my grandchildren, and the kind of choices they have at age 17, it's putting too much of a burden on them. It's not allowing them to experiment. It's not allowing them to be young. It's not allowing them to make mistakes. That's a very harsh world, in which you can't be foolish.

BILL MOYERS: What's in store for the average worker in this new world?

PETER DRUCKER: I think that you see less, or rather a gentler, transition than I had expected a few years back. Partly because the average age is so high so that there is a lot of early retirement which is now, if we have no inflation, reasonably well-cushioned for most of them; partly because there is an enormous flexibility in the American working force. The real problem is not economics, believe me. Economics is almost unimportant. The real problem is social status. The real problem is power has gone.

BILL MOYERS: What do you mean?

PETER DRUCKER: The real problem is that the easy access to working class life. The other day I was in a meeting with some of my UAW friends. We talked about this. And one of the very able union men said, "My members, they are concerned about the recreation vehicle and the vacation cottage in the north woods" and so on. And the other fellow broke in and said, "Joe, I think that's a second worry; their major worry is that they now see that their children cannot make that kind of living becoming a worker; that they now have to sit and sit and sit and get the degree in cost accounting," and I chimed in and said, "And never do an honest day's work in their life." And he said that's exactly the way they feel.

BILL MOYERS: And is that the future?

PETER DRUCKER: That the honest work of yesterday has lost its social status, its social esteem.

BILL MOYERS: I read just the other day, Peter, that it now takes two incomes in a family to equal the purchasing power that one check bought in about '71, '72.

PETER DRUCKER: That is not quite -- well, we have had inflation and all wages have risen a little lower than inflation, that is just as true for anybody else. But don't say purchasing power, say standard of living. Because our expectations have risen incredibly.
