Knowledge Worker  
Drucker ’s Dictums  
(May 2017)  
 
© Fred Nickols 2017  www.nickols.us  Page 1 I was recently pointed to an article on the McKinsey & Company web site titled “Boosting the 
Productivity of Knowledge Workers.”  Right away I knew something was amiss.  The focus of efforts to 
improve productivity should be on the work, not the worker.  And so I was prompted to make a 
comment to that effect and post a link to a pape r on my site titled, “Drucker’s Dictums: Knowledge 
Work, Workers and Working.”   
Subsequently, Klaus Wittkuhn, the president of ISPI, invited me to this year’s ISPI conference in 
Montreal to particip ate in an activity focusing on the challenges involved in making knowledge work 
productive.  Regrettably, I can’t make this year’s conference but, in the meantime, I can draw attention 
to some of the challenges in making knowledge work productive.   
In thi s month’s column I will present a sampling of “Drucker’s Dictums.” First, a few words about the late 
Peter Drucker (1909 -2005).  
No one paid more attention to the shift to knowledge work or the rise of the knowledge worker than the 
late Peter Drucker (1909 -2005).  Starting in 1959, with Landmarks of Tomorrow,  and continuing to his 
death in 2005, Drucker steadfastly chronicled and commented about the challenge of making knowledge 
work productive and the knowledge worker achieving.  This column presents a few of what I view as 
some of his more important comments (i.e., “dictums”) taken from the three books in which he 
commented at great length on that challenge:  Landmarks of Tomorrow, The Age of Discontinuity  and 
Management.  His challenge, by the way, is stil l with us.  
Landmarks of Tomorrow (1959)  
The section of Landmarks of Tomorrow that most closely ties to the issues of knowledge work, 
knowledge workers and productivity is Chapter 5, The Educated Society.  In it, Drucker wrote:  
“The man who works exclusivel y or primarily with his hands is the one who is increasingly 
unproductive.  Productive work in today’s society and economy is work that applies vision, 
knowledge and concepts – work that is based on the mind rather than on the hand (pp.119 -
120).  
The Age of  Discontinuity (1969)  
In The A ge of Discontinuity, Drucker commented at length on the shift to a knowledge economy and 
knowledge work.  He also began his detailed and decades -long chronicling of and commentary about the 
rise of the knowledge worker.  In it, he posed the following challenge:  
To make knowledge work productive will be the great management task of this century, 
just as to make manual work productive was the great management task of the last 
century (p.290).  
Later, in his monumental tome, Manage ment, Drucker examined knowledge work and 
knowledge workers at great length and went into great detail regarding what it would take to 
meet the challenge he had presented in The Age of Discontinuity.   

Knowledge Worker  
Drucker ’s Dictums  
(May 2017)  
 
© Fred Nickols 2017  www.nickols.us  Page 2 Management (1973)  
The most important thing we know is that work and working are fundamentally different phenomena 
(pp. 181 -182).  
The output of the knowledge worker always becomes somebody else’s input.  It is, therefore, not self -
evident in knowledge work, as it is in making a pair of shoes, whether the work has results or not.  This 
can be seen only by projecting backward from the needed end results (p.183).  
Knowledge work, therefore, needs far better design, precisely because it cannot be designed for the 
worker.  It can be designed only by the worker (p.183 ). 
Finally, there is the knowledge worker, and especially the advanced knowledge worker.  He has to be a 
“knowledge professional”... This means that no one can motivate him.  He has to motivate himself.  No 
one can direct him.  Above all, no one can sup ervise him.  He is the guardian of his own standards, of his 
own performance, of his own performance, and of his own objectives.  He can be productive only if he is 
responsible for his own job (p.279).  
I saved for last the following comment by Drucker beca use I think it is particularly applicable to the 
current world of work, workers, working and management:  
 [The] manager has to manage now.  He has to find solutions – or at least 
accommodations – which will enable him to make work productive and the worker  
achieving.  He has to understand what the demands are.  He cannot expect to succeed 
by continuing the practices of the last two hundred years.  He will have to develop new 
approaches, new principles, and new methods – and fast (pp. 196 -197).  
It is now mor e than 40 years since Drucker published Management  and although it can be argued that 
we have since made considerable progress it can also be argued that we are far from having solved the 
problem of making knowledge work productive and the knowledge worker  achieving.  In 2005, the year 
Peter Drucker passed away, Tom Davenport published Thinking for a Living. In it he wrote:  
“Yet despite the importance of knowledge workers to the economic success of countries, 
companies, and other groups, they haven’t receiv ed sufficient attention (p.8).”  
Where all this leaves us, then, is where we are today – in a workplace filled with knowledge workers and 
we still know precious little about how to deal with them.  One thing we do know is that we can’t 
manage them; they must manage themselves and it is the job of management – and our job as ISPI 
members and performance improvement professionals concerned with performance in the workplace – 
to find ways of equipping knowledge workers to manage their own performance and of then supporting 
them in doing it.   
As I said at the beginning of this column, Drucker’s challenge is with us still.  
References  
Drucker, P. F., (1959). Landmarks for Tomorrow.  Harper & Brothers, Publishers: New York.  

Knowledge Worker  
Drucker ’s Dictums  
(May 2017)  
 
© Fred Nickols 2017  www.nickols.us  Page 3 ___________, (1969).  The Age of Discontinuity.  Harper & Row, Publishers: New York.  
___________, (1973).  Management.  Harper & Row, Publishers: New York.  
Davenport, T. H., (2005). Thinking for a Living: How to Get Better Performance and Results from 
Knowledge Workers. Harvard Busines s School Press: Boston.  
About the Author  
Fred Nickols, CPT, is a knowledge worker, writer, consultant, and former executive who spent 20 years 
in the U.S. Navy,  retiring as a decorated chief petty officer.  In the private sector, he worked as a 
consultant and then held executive positions with two former clients.  Currently, Fred is the manager 
partner of Distance Consulting LLC.  His website is home to  the award -winning Knowledge Worker ’s Tool 
Room  and more than 200 free articles, book chapters, and papers.  Fred is a longtime member of ISPI 
and writes this monthly column for Performance Xpress.  A complete listing of all Knowledge Worker 
columns  and access to them is available here.