The Age of Discontinuity

Transaction Books by Peter F. Drucker Adventures of a Bystander The Age of Discontinuity Concept of the Corporation The Ecological Vision The End of Economic Man The Future of Industrial Man Landmarks of Tomorrow The New Realities The New Society The Pension Fund Revolution

The Age of Discontinuity Guidelines to Our Changing Society Peter F. Drucker With a New Introduction by the Author

Third printing 2000 New material this edition copyright © 1992 by Peter F. Drucker. Originally published by Harper &amp; Row. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopy, recording, or any information storage and retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the publisher. All inquiries should be addressed to Transaction Publishers, RutgersThe State University, 35 Berrue Circle, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-8042. This book is printed on acid-free paper that meets the American National Standard for Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials. Library of Congress Catalog Number: 92-7674 ISBN: 1-56000-618-8 Printed in the United States of America Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Drucker, Peter Ferdinand, 1909- The age of discontinuity: guidelines to our changing society/Peter F. Drucker; with a new introduction by the author. p. cm. Includes index. ISBN 1-56000-618-8 1. Economic history 1945-1971. 2. Social history 1945-. I. Title. HC59.D69 1992 92-7674 306'.09'04dc20 CIP

clear to me that the time had come to stop asking what government should do and to ask instead what government can doa question not asked since the early days of the French Revolution, when it was asked in a little book The Limits of the Effectiveness of Government by a unknown young German student, Wilhelm von Humboldt (17671835), later to become a leading liberal statesman, the father of scientific linguistics, and the founder of the nineteenth-century Germanand, indirectly, of the modern AmericanUniversity. (I was probably predisposed to ask this question because in the early 1930's, just as young as Humboldt had been, I began a study of Humboldt's political thoughtalso never finished and never published.) As a result of trying to think through this question I coined in this book the word "re-privatization" which, ten years later, Margaret Thatcher, upon becoming England's prime minister, picked up and popularized as "privatization." This book was written in 1967 and 1968 while American society was in tumultin the midst of student rebellions and protests against the Vietnam War. Yet these disturbances are hardly mentioned in the books. Not because I did not think them serious. In fact I did think them more serious than most American observers did then or now. For to most American observers these are "American" phenomena. They fail to notice that the student rebellions did not start in the United States and were infinitely more violent and longer-lasting in Japan, Germany, and Francenone of which had a Vietnamese War or a race problem. Similarly few American observers pay heed to the fact that Vietnam was only oneand by no means the most extremefailure of a major military power to win a "police action." The last successful one was almost twenty years in the past when this book was written: the suppression of communist insurgency by the British in Malaya. It was a Pyrrhic victory; the effort and its cost only speeded the dissolution of the British Empire. After that there was one stalemateKoreaand then a string of defeats: the French in Vietnam and Algiers; the Americans in Vietnam, and, a few years after the book was published, the Russians in Afghanistan. (And I can only hope

CONTENTS Introduction to the Transaction Edition vii Preface to the 1983 Edition xi Preface to the Original Edition xxvii Part One: The Knowledge Technologies 1. The End of Continuity 3 2. The New Industries and Their Dynamics 11 3. The New Entrepreneur 42 4. The New Economic Policies 58 Part Two: From International to World Economy 5. The Global Shopping Center 77 6. Making the Poor Productive 102 7. Beyond the "New Economics" 137 Part Three: A Society of Organizations 8. The New Pluralism 171 9. Toward a Theory of Organizations 188 10. The Sickness of Government 212 11. How Can the Individual Survive? 243

Part Four: The Knowledge Society 12. The Knowledge Economy 263 13. Work and Worker in the Knowledge Society 287 14. Has Success Spoiled the Schools? 311 15. The New Learning and the New Teaching 334 16. The Politics of Knowledge 349 17. Does Knowledge Have a Future? 372 Conclusion 381 Index 384

INTRODUCTION TO THE TRANSACTION EDITION I made one of my regular trips to Japan in the spring of 1970, a few months after THE AGE OF DISCONTINUITY had been published in that country where it became an instant and much-discussed best-seller. A distinguished Japanese sociologist immediately organized a symposium on the book at a major Tokyo university. He opened the day by saying, "Fifteen years ago Drucker taught us that to preserve Japanese culture we have to build a functioning modern economy. His new book teaches us that to preserve Japanese culture we now have to build a functioning modern society." Of course, this book was not written for Japan nor specifically aimed at the Japanese (though it was one of the earliest books to point out the economic success of Japan and to draw lessons from it). However, its basic underlying thesis in the late 1960's was indeed that after twenty postwar years during which the center of gravity had been the economy, society's center of gravity was now shifting to society and its structure. I had not, in the early forties, begun the study of management because I had much interest in business. I had littleand still do not have too much. But I had become convincedin large part because of the experience of World War IIthat a free society required something then still unstudied and largely ignored: the institution of management. (These conclusions were developed in three earlier books: The Future of Industrial Man [1943], Concept of the Corporation [1946], and The New Society: The Anatomy of the Industrial Order [1949], all three to be reissued

shortly by Transaction Publishers). By the late 1960's, the world, including even most underdeveloped countries, had become "management conscious." In fact the growth of management schools, management degrees, management books, was by then already somewhat excessive, at least in quantity. But the very great economic achievement of that newly emerging social institution, managementand my point all the way was precisely that management is a social institution rather than "economics" or "business"did, as success always does, create new and very different challenges, the challenges discussed in The Age of Discontinuity. The challenges are still with us, and they are social challenges rather than economic ones. At the same time, another success, that of twentieth century government, also had peaked, as this book first pointed out. Twentieth century government as we know it emerged out of World War I which was as much triumph of bureaucracy in all belligerent countries (even in the Tsar's Russia), as it was a total debacle of military leadership, competence, and strategy on all sides. By the mid-sixties governments, whether communist, authoritarian, or democratic, seemed to be at the pinnacle of power. Every country believed that any social task would be "solved" if turned over to government. And this belief was as universal in Stalin's and Khrushchev's Russia as it was in de Gaulle's France, in the English Labor Party or in John F. Kennedy's America. Yet it did not take much probing to realize that governments were rapidly becoming impotent, were rapidly losing the capacity to produce results. I had become convinced as early as the 1950's that the Soviet experiment was a total failure, economically as well as socially (something I had actually predicted in my 1939 book The End of Economic Man which will also be republished soon by Transaction). By the mid-sixties the Soviet Union's failure no longer had to be analyzed; it had become overt. But by then it was also obvious that Lyndon Johnson's brave endeavor in the War on Poverty to complete the unfinished welfare state of the New Deal of the thirties, was bearing one stillbirth after the other and was likely only to produce massive deficits rather than social results. It was

that the American success in Iraq in 1991 does not mislead military minds to forget the earlier lessons.) A worldwide phenomenon must have universal rather than local causes. To explain either the student rebellions in the United States or Vietnam in purelyor even in predominantlyAmerican terms, as most American analysts are wont to do, is surely carrying ''American exceptionalism" to the heights of absurdity! But while I thus took these turbulences more seriously than most American observers, they appeared to meand still appear to meto be symptoms. Such social eruptions bespeak profound social shifts. They are not themselves social shiftsas I said of the student rebellions at the time, since borne out by events. They may be very destructive. But so is a tsunami; the real phenomena is, however, the earthquake on the ocean flour. Such eruptions bespeak a need for diagnosis as symptoms always do. What are they symptoms of? This is the question this book tried to answer in 1969. Every one of this book's assertions was brand-new when the book came out, and quite contrary to the received wisdom of the times. Yet readers and reviewers alike said at once "Of course," and have said so ever since. This is the response social analysis aims at, the response that validates it. If such analysis comes up with what people already know, it is likely to be a report on yesterday. If it comes up with something people do not recognize, do not perceive, it is likely to be "futuristic" which is euphemism for fairy tale and wishful thinking. Every book of social analysis that has stood the test of timewhether the works of Max Weber or those of Thorstein Veblen, to name but two of the hallowed names, had that quality of being both brand-new and "of course." That The Age of Discontinuity, a quarter-century after it was written, still has this quality, is, to my mind, its most important and its most enduring achievement. PETER F. DRUCKER CLAREMONT, CALIFORNIA NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1992

PREFACE TO THE 1983 EDITION When this book was first published, almost a decade ago, such major shocks as the petroleum cartel of 1973 or Watergate were still well in the future, still unpredictable, indeed inconceivable. The environmental crusade had barely begun. But even if I had been able to foresee these momentous events, I would not have paid much attention to them in this bookjust as I paid scant attention to the headlines of the late sixties, such as the Vietnam War or the student unrest. For this book tries to do something that is altogether different and perhaps more ambitious than forecasting. It does not try to predict "developments," no matter how important. It attempts, instead, to identify and to define changes that are occurring or have already occurred in the foundations. Its themes are the continental drifts that form new continents, rather than the wars that form new national boundaries. "Discontinuity" is what I called these major changes in the underlying social and cultural reality. This was a rather novel term at the timealthough [perhaps as a result of this book and its success] it has become a good deal more familiar since. "Revolution" was, and still is, a term in wide use; ideed it may be greatly overused. But what is a discontinuity? The term, as the geologist uses it, denotes much more and much less than does revolution. Revolution is the earthquake or the volcanic eruption that obliterates the familiar landscape and creates a new one. But these revolutions are

largely the effects of shifts in the foundations that precede them and make the revolutions inevitable. These revolutions result from discontinuities: from the buildup of tension between a new underlying reality and the surface of established institution and customary behavior that still conform to yesterday's underlying realities. And while revolutions tend to be violent and spectacular, discontinuities tend to develop gradually and quietly and are rarely perceived until they have resulted in the volcanic eruption or the earthquake. Let me illustrate with something from the history of the book itself. Chapter 10, "The Sickness of Government" was published in a magazine a few months before the book itself appeared, and just when Richard Nixon was sworn in for his first presidential term. Mr. Nixon took occasion, in one of his first public speeches as president, sharply to attack the book. "Peter Drucker," he said, addressing the employees of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW), shortly after his inauguration in early 1969, "says that modern government can only do two things well: wage war and inflate the currency. It is the aim of my administration to prove Mr. Drucker wrong." In one way, Mr. Nixon did indeed prove me wrongthough hardly in the way in which he meant it. His administration showed in Vietnam that modern government may perhaps not even know how to wage warthough it also showed that it knew only too well how to inflate the currency. But in the sense in which Mr. Nixon meant his attack on the book to be understood, his administration amply proved the thesis of this book. For the earthquake, the volcanic eruption of Watergate, very largely resulted from the fundamental discontinuity between the sickness of Government, which this book identifies and discusses, and Mr. Nixon's attempts to defy this reality through his "Imperial Presidency." Since this book first appeared, its fundamental thesisthat the postWorld War II period was the end rather than the beginning of an agehas become widely accepted. But little attention is being paid to the major shifts themselves. Most observers still look backwardthis book tries to look forward. That such shifts have occurred, irreversibly, may be seen, or perhaps only be felt. The

slogans, however, whether of the Right or of the Left, of the Free World or of the countries of totalitarian Communism, whether of developed or of developing countries, are still those of yesterday's realities and so, I fear, are most of the policies proposed. Yet the past decade, since this book first appeared, has, I can say confidently, borne out my basic analysis. This book identifies a discontinuity in four areas: · in the rapid emergence of new technologies and of new industries based on them; · in the emergence of a genuine world economy, in which the relations between developed and developing nations take the place of the class conflicts within a national economy that dominated the nineteenth century (and still dominate rhetoric and policy as a whole). At the same time, the world economy is seen in this book as having become both the dynamic and policy-setting center for all economies, and the area in which new economic and social institutions would evolve; · the emergence of a new pluralism of institutions that obsoletes traditional, and still generally accepted, theories of government and society, but that also severely endangers and perhaps destroys the ability of government to perform; · finally, the emergence of knowledge as the new capital and as the central resource of an economy, and of the men of knowledge, that is the managers of institutions, as the new power center and leading group. This implies, as this book argues, that the responsibility and accountability of knowledge and of men of knowledge would become a central issue for political theory and public policy and a central moral concern. That Watergate was in large part a result of the discontinuity that I call "the sickness of government," and especially of the refusal of the Nixon Administration to take this discontinuity seriously, has been said already. But the oil crisis of 1973 was also largely a result of such a discontinuity: the shift from national to world economy as the true dynamic center. Not only did the oil crisis show dramatically the total dependence of all countries and of all economies on the world economy, in sharp and irreconcilable contrast to the doctrine of the national economy which still passes

for orthodoxy among economists. The OPEC cartel could not have succeeded but for the "race war" sentiment of the developing world. For the developed countries, the high price of petroleum is not much more than an inconvenience and a political embarrassment. Financially and economically, it actually strengthens them. For the added revenue of the petroleum-exporting countries, both that part of it that comes from the developed countries and that part that comes from developing countries of the Third World, can be used in only two waysboth benefiting directly the developed industrial countries. It can be used to buy goods from the developed countries. Or it can be invested in the developed countries. For the developing countries, however, the petroleum cartel with its high price for energy and fertilizers poses a mortal threat. Yet when the petroleum-producing countries quadrupled crude oil prices in 1973, all the developing countries cheeredincluding even those that, like India, Brazil, or Pakistan, knew immediately how serious a threat the higher petroleum price posed to their own economies and their own economic and social stability. Without support from the developing world, OPEC would have collapsed within a few months. The developing countries, even when they knew how dangerous the high petroleum price was to their own economic future, saw OPEC's action as a blow against this "class enemy" in the world economy, and as a first successful attack on the power and dominance of the rich and developed Western countries. This may have been a mistakecutting off one's nose to spite one's face usually is. But it also demonstrated that the developing countries tend to act in terms of a world economy, despite their intense and almost feverish nationalist rhetoric. Similarly, the change in the world position of the multinational corporation in the last ten years can only be explained as a result of the discontinuity that the emergence of the world economy represents. This book argues that the multinational is, or should be, of greatest importance and benefit to the developing countries, and that indeed it should be considered an absolute necessity by them. For the developed countries and their governments, however, the book asserts, the multinational would pose increasingly

become the first concern of developed economies. To some extent, this can be assuaged by postponing retirement. In the United States, we have already gone very far towards legislating later retirement, both for reasons of economics and because it will increasingly be felt as inhumane and cruel to deny older people, who are physically and mentally fit to work, access to work on grounds of age alone. For a large and growing number of these people do not want to retire. This is especially true of knowledge people who, by and large, fear retirementwhereas the manual worker, after a lifetime of rather dull and often physically demanding work, may welcome retirement. But postponing retirement can only ease the situation. It is no solution. But such solutions as we have also mean a drastic shift in all developed countries. It means, in effect, that the employees have come to be the owners of industry, through their pension funds. This development is most clearly pronounced in the United States, where employee pension funds, those of business but also of public service institutions such as hospitals and universities and those of local governments, already owned one-third or more of the equity capital of America's big and medium-sized companies in the mid-seventies and can be expected, by the mid-eighties, to have a solid majority of the share capital of American business in their pension portfolios. In Europe, the same development is under way in a slightly different form, with one or a small number of central pension funds becoming increasingly the owners of industry under various laws already enacted or in the legislative hopper. And in Japan, the same process is taking place, although there employee ownership is not the route. Rather, it is "lifetime employment," under which the enterprise is being run for the benefit of the employees, and increasingly for the benefit of retired employees as well. These are fundamental structural changes with tremendous impact. What makes them even more important is that developments in the rest of the world follow a very different pattern. In the developed countries of Communismthat is, in European Russia and the European satellitesthe age structure is the same as here. People live longer. And in these countries they retire even sooner.

serious political problems. At the time at which it was written, this seemed to contradict completely what everybody knew. The multinational was the villain in practically all developing countries; most of which, one way or another, seemed determined to get rid of it. In the developed countries, on the other hand, the multinational was generally approved of, without too much criticism or debate. Ten years later, that is now, these positions have become almost completely reversed. In one developing country after another, the multinational is now seen as the one hopeor at least as a necessity. Laws passed with great fanfare a decade ago to exclude, or at least to limit, the multinationalfor instance the Andean Pact legislation of the countries on the west coast of South America, from Venezuela to Chilehave either been repealed or are being quietly shelved. At the same time, it is the developed country, and especially the United States, where the multinational is now increasingly under the most serious attack. But even within the developed countries, the positions in respect to the multinational are rapidly being reversed. Ten years ago, John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard liberal economist, was almost alone among leading economists in the developed world in his condemnation of the multinational. But in the spring of 1977, Galbraith declared that the multinational had become the only economic hope and the most positive force for economic development and economic integration of the developing countries. And finally, the tremendous surge in the demand for social responsibility and accountability of managersin business, but also in hospitals and in government agenciessince this book was first published, testifies to both the effects of the discontinuity that I call the "new pluralism of organizations," and the effects of the discontinuity that lies in the emergence of "knowledge" people as the new power center. Bringing out a book in a new edition, a decade after it has been written, inevitably raises the question: Would the author still write the same book today? Of course one never writes the same book a second time. But on re-reading this book, I find that I would not take out very much of what I wrote then, in the late sixties. I

would modify this statement, change this or that illustration, perhaps shift the emphasis slightly here or there. But, by and large, the book seems to me to have worn well. The main trends I then saw are still the main trends today, only perhaps more so. Some of the assertions that seemed least credible to readers of 1969, e.g., the assertion that modern government is indeed very sick, are by now home truths. But if I were to write this book again today, I would probably add a new chapter, or at least sound one new note. One major development is barely mentioned in this book. It is perhaps not of the same fundamental character as the discontinuities with which the book deals. But it is a major shift, nonetheless. And it is bound to have great impact during the rest of this centuryon economy, on government, and also on the basic world view of modern man. This is the shift in population structures and population dynamics, and especially the fact that basic population dynamics are moving in different directions in the three major parts of our world: the developed countries of the industrial world, from Japan to the German border with the Soviet Bloc, the countries that includein addition to JapanNorth America and western and northern Europe; the developed countries of the Soviet Bloc, that is European Russia and her European satellites, East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Rumania; and finally the developing countries of the Third World. In the developed industrial countries of the free world, we experienced a "baby boom" right after World War II. It varied greatly in intensity and length. But it was a universal event, though in Great Britain it was quite short-lived. Everyplace, the number of babies born to a woman of child-bearing age went up sharplyfamilies suddenly became much larger than they had been for a long time. And then, in all these countries, there was a "baby bust": earliest perhaps in Japanaround 1955but reaching the United States by 1960, with Western Europe in between. The number of births per woman of child-bearing age fell drastically, as much as a quarter within a few years. And at the same time, the number of older people began a sharp and steep rise, partly because many more people now reach retirement age than ever

did before, and partly because those who live to 65 tend to live much longer afterwards than ever before. * All three developments are unprecedented in human history. There never was anything before resembling the baby boom. In the United States, for instance, the number of babies born increased almost fifty percent within five years, between 1948 and 1953there is no such development on record in man's earlier history. But there is also no precedent for the baby bust. And the most fundamental development of them all, the sharp increase in the number of people who survive into old age, and even more the sharp increase of those who enjoy long years of old age, is equally without precedent. But the twenty-five years between World War II and the early 1970's witnessed another important population development in the developed countries of the free worldthough it is not quite so unprecedented as the sharp change in birth rate and life expectancies. In all these countries there were very sharp migrations from pre-industrial areas into the industrial world, and especially into the big cities. In the United States, this was the migration of pre-industrial rural people, white and black, into the big cities, from New York to Atlanta, Detroit, Chicago, and Los Angeles. In Europe, where the rural population had already moved into the city well before World War II, and basically well before World War I, there was a tremendous movement of "guest workers" from the countries of the MediterraneanPortugal, Spain, Yugoslavia, Greece, Turkey, Morocco, and Algeriainto the industrialized north, from northern Italy to Sweden, and particularly into Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, Holland, and even into xenophobic Great Britain. In Japan, very large numbers of people streamed from the farms, especially in the backward and poor north, into the great industrial centers along the Tokyo-Osaka corridor. But like the baby boom, this tremendous wave of migration was a short-lived phenomenon. By the early seventies, that is, just about * For the full implications of these developments, see a recent book of mine: The Unseen Revolution: How Pension Fund Socialism Came to America (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1976).

the time the baby bust set in in the developed countries in full force, the great migration was over. In part, this is because the reservoirs had been exhausted. There are no more reserves of underemployed people on the Japanese farms. Where Japan in 1946, after World War II, had almost sixty percent of her population on the land, the figure is now down to eight percent, and most of them are women and elderly women at that. In the United States, similarly, the exodus from the impoverished sharecropping shanty into the big city is overthe sharecropping shanty today stands empty, with the work being done by tractors instead. And while there are still tremendous masses of underemployed or unemployed laborers in the Mediterranean countries, western and northern Europe are no longer capable of absorbing them. Indeed, all these countries have passed the point at which they can easily absorb new pre-industrial migrants. It is almost certain that the number of guest workers in western and northern Europe will go down rather than up from now onsocially and culturally they can no longer be accommodated. In all these developed countries, the sixties and seventies were years in which very large numbers of young people reached adulthood and entered the labor force. But by the early eighties this will be over. From then on, we can expect for the rest of this century a sharp drop in the number of young peopleand at the same time, such young people as are reaching adulthood will increasingly be people with long years of formal education and therefore available for "knowledge work" only. In the traditional categories of workmanual labor, especially manual factory laborwe face at least a quarter century of great shortage. At the same time, the number of older people is increasing rapidlyand very few people seem to realize how fast the shift is going on. In 1935, when the United States first adopted nationwide Social Security, there were nine people in the American labor force for every American over 65. Today, despite an unprecedented and almost explosive growth of the American labor force, the ratio is three Americans in the labor force for every American over 65. And by 1985, the ratio will be two and a half to one. One implication of this is that the support of the older people will increasingly

The support of the older people in these countries will therefore become as much the central concern as it is bound to become in the developed societies of the West. But the babies are missing. There was no baby boom behind the Iron Curtain. In European Russia, the years of World War II were years in which no children were bornand few of those that had been born in the years just before the German invasion survived those horrible times. But the birthrate recovered only slightly. It is well below the birthrate of the baby bust in the West, and has been at this very low level now for more than thirty years. And while in most of the European satellites, except Poland, there was no major wartime destructionso that the babies born during those years survived, by and largethe birthrate since then has been low and is drifting lower still. In all these countries, the birthrate is also, as in European Russia, well below the net reproduction ratethat is the rate needed to maintain the population level. It is far below the level these countries need to satisfy simultaneously the demands of industrialization to which they are committed and the demands made by huge military forces, based on conscripts serving long years in their early manhood. And while in European Russia there is still a very large farm populationone-third or more of the labor forceit cannot be drawn upon to make up the deficiencies and labor shortages that threaten both the economy and the manpower supply for the armed services. For the labor shortage is hitting Russia just at the time when farm production is most needed and is indeed in severe crisis. In the developing countries, finally, the basic problem will be to find jobs for enormous numbers of young adults. For the babies of the fifties and sixties did not, as all earlier generations of babies in these countries did, die in their infancy. Of every ten babies born in Mexico in 1938, for instance, only two or three were still alive in 1958. The birthrate fell very sharply in Mexico after World War II, as it did in all developing countriescontrary to what most people seem to believe. Indeed, the drop in the birthrate in the developing countriesexcept maybe in China, of which we have no direct and reliable informationhas fallen more sharply since World War II than it did in any part of the world in any

period of recorded history. And yet the drop in infant mortality in these countries was much sharper still. Of every ten babies born in Mexico in 1958, seven or eight are alive today and in reasonably good physical and mental state. What is more, these young adults are notas their parents were at the same agetucked away in some remote mountain valley. They are in the city. They are visible. They have political, economic, and social power and political, economic, and social significance. And they need jobs. At the same time, very few of these countries have enough of a domestic market to absorb more than a small fraction of this huge labor supply, even if the capital were available. Brazil may be one exception, with India another one, although only to a limited extent. But the rest of the developing world does not have the domestic markets to absorb the goods and services these very large numbers of new workers could produce, even if they worked most inefficiently and were paid just enough to keep body and soul together. The only hope for these countries is to find jobs in export productionand that means production for the markets of the developed countries, which alone have the purchasing power to absorb these goods. But in the developed countries, the only labor available after the early eighties will be women past 35, available mainly for part-time work, and older people who keep on working beyond what is now considered standard retirement age. Otherwise, the supply of people for manual work and for low-skilled clerical work will be barely enough to do the jobs that have to be done at home. Cleaning the streets and collecting the garbage; carrying bedpans in the hospital and food to the patients in the hospital beds and a host of other manual chores have to be done at home and cannot possibly be farmed out abroad. Manufacturing work that is highly labor-intensive will increasingly have to be moved where the labor supply isthat is to the developing countries. In fact, the most significant economic development of the 1970's may well have been neither the petroleum crisis nor the recession. It may have been the very rapid development of what I call ''production sharing." In this process, for instance, the American manufacturer of "chips," that is, electronic semi-conductors, exports his products to

Hong Kong or Singapore, where the chips are put into a steel case, typically made in India where there is a good deal of excess steel capacity; then a Japanese company puts its brand name on the finished hand-held calculator and sells it all over the world, with one-fifth to one-quarter of the output coming back to the United States, where it is then considered a "Japanese import." Or, to give another example, there is the large European textile company that spins, weaves, and dyes in Europe and then airfreights the cloth to Morocco, Nigeria, or Indonesia, where it is worked up into clothing, sheets, pillowslips, rugs, or upholstery fabric and airfreighted back to Europe to be sold in the Common Market. That this production sharing goes counter to all traditional concepts of exporting or importing is obvious. What, for instance, is the hand-held calculatoran "import" into the United States, or the form in which U.S.-made electronic semi-conductors go to the world market, that is, an "export''? As yet, neither economic theory nor economic policy knows how to tackle this new developmentand yet it may well become the most dominant development in the world economy in the next ten or twenty years. Altogether the changes in population structure and population dynamics will create major new problems and major new opportunities. Perhaps this change is not a major "discontinuity" of the same kind as the others discussed in this book. After all, within twenty years or so the population structure may well stabilize again. By that time, the population explosion in the developing world should be over. Already the gap between birthrates and death rates is narrowing sharply in all these countries. The death rate is no longer going down and the birthrate is still sliding sharply. By 1990 or so, the two are likely to have reached a new balancethe same kind of balance, perhaps, that now characterizes the developed countries. Indeed, in such countries as Taiwan or Korea this has already occurredand it is not too far away in most countries of Latin America. But for the next twenty years, population dynamics will be a major discontinuity. At the same time, however, population dynamics will only serve to accentuate the other discontinuities discussed in this book. They will quite obviously push the economic center of gravity even

further toward a world economy, while at the same time aggravating the confrontation between the developed countries, eager as all of them are to protect aging workers in old manufacturing industries, and the developing countries, in desperate need of manufacturing jobs that can only be provided by access to the markets of the developed countries. Population dynamics will clearly make the multinational even more important, especially for the developing countries. But it will also increase the institutional pluralism and the crisis of government in the developed countries and its impotence in controlling events within their own borders. And it will make the knowledge worker even more important, since it is knowledge work that alone can make production sharing possible. Indeed, production sharing is likely to call for a sharp increase in the number of managers, professional people, technicians, and so on, in the developed countries. It makes very high demands on managerial ability and calls for the application of rather sophisticated knowledgetools to the economic process. Population dynamics, in other words, make the discontinuities of this book more, rather than less, important. But by themselves they are also an important development that surely would call for careful and thoughtful consideration, were I to write this book over again today. When this book was first published it became an instant bestseller in two countries, the United States and Japan. In the United States, it was on the bestseller list for a number of weeks. In Japan it was the "national bestseller" for an entire year. Indeed, the word its Japanese translators coined for "discontinuity," for which no Japanese term existed at the time, has become a household word, to the point where Japanese fashion editors now talk of a "discontinuity" when the hemline goes up or down two inches. In both countries the book has continued to enjoy wide readership and to exert considerable influence. But to me, the most interesting development is what happened in Europe. For in Europe the book was only moderately successful at first. It was indeed translated almost immediately into most European languages. But it was largely treated as an "American

book"; of interest to those who want to know what goes on in the United States, but not particularly relevant to Europe. This has changed dramatically in the last few yearsnot only in respect to the sales of the book, but even more in respect to its place in Europe's public discussion and in the way in which the book is commented upon again and again in the popular press and in scholarly works and learned articles. When I was asked to lecture in a number of European countries in the summer of 1977, my hosts in every country insisted, for instance, that I focus on the topics of this book, rather than on events in the headlines. Does this mean anything? Or is it just an anecdote? I believe that this sharp shift in the attention that The Age of Discontinuity is receiving in Europe is a symptom of a fairly important development. In the United States, the postWorld War II period had already come to an end when this book appeared. The decisive event, I am convinced, was President Kennedy's assassination in November 1963, rather than the Vietnam debacle, the student unrest, or the "petroleum shock" of 1973. For me at least, President Kennedy's assassination marked the end of an era. It was the event that started the thinking that, a few years later, resulted in my writing this book. And I believe that President Kennedy's assassination similarly hit a great many people in this country in their subconscious. It reminded all of us of the dark forces that lurk just beneath the thin veneer of civilization that we had thought to have repaired during and after World War II. In Japan, too, President Kennedy's assassination had a deep traumatic effect and made people aware that something irreversible had indeed occurred. But in Europe, the years around 1970 were, so to speak, the Indian Summer of the postWorld War II era. In fact, Europe was in a state of euphoria in those years. Only a few years earlier, Europe had been concerned about the "American threat." The bestselling book in Europe in the mid-sixties bore the title Le Défi Américain (The American Challenge). Written by a French journalist, Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, it asserted that Europe was about to become a colony of American big business, and that indeed the process had gone so far that it could not be undone. And only a few years earlier, one

eighteenth-century liberal theory, the reality that governs our behavior is that of organized, indeed overorganized, power concentrations. Yet we are also approaching a turning point in this trend. Everywhere there is rapid disenchantment with the biggest and fastest-growing of these institutions, modern government, as well as cynicism regarding its ability to perform. We are becoming equally critical of the other organized institutions; revolt is occurring simultaneously in the Catholic Church and the big university. The young everywhere are, indeed, rejecting all institutions with equal hostility. We have created a new sociopolitical reality without so far understanding it, without, indeed, much thinking about it. This new pluralist society of institutions poses political, philosophical, and spiritual challenges that go far beyond this book (or the author's competence). 4. But the most important of the changes is the last one. Knowledge, during the last few decades, has become the central capital, the cost center, and the crucial resource of the economy. This changes labor forces and work, teaching and learning, and the meaning of knowledge and its politics. But it also raises the problem of the responsibilities of the new men of power, the men of knowledge. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; Yet neither economics nor technology, neither political structure nor knowledge and education, is the theme of this book. The unifying common theme is the discontinuities that even a cursory glance at reality reveals. They are very different, perhaps, from what the forecasts predict. But they are even more different from what most of us still perceive as "today." Every single one of the views that this book records will be familiar. Yet the social landscape that emerges when they are put together into one picture bears little resemblance to what all of us still see when we look around us. Or, to change the metaphor, we, the actors, still believe we are playing Ibsen or Bernard Shawwhile it is the "Theater of the Absurd" in which we actually appear (and on TV rather than "live" on Broadway). &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; It is high fashion today to predict "the year 2000." We suddenly realize that we are closer to this milestone than we are to that fateful

of the most respected European economists, the Englishman Geoffrey Crowther, had stated flatly that for all foreseeable time to come the American dollar would be king in the international economy. By the late sixties and early seventies, however, it had become crystal clear that these predictions were totally in error. By that time, the "dollar shortage" had already turned into a "dollar glut," and America was piling up one balance of payments deficit after another. People in Europe muttered darkly about America becoming the "sick man" of the world economy. And the European industry, which to Servan-Schreiber seemed to be hopelessly outmoded and overtaken by American entrepreneurship and American technology, had moved into the lead with European exports, symbolized for instance by Volkswagen's Beetle, making serious inroads into the American market. The German mark and the French franc were the "stars" in 1969 and 1970, rather than the American dollar. Politically too, in those years, Europe felt it had the answer in the steady, continued and apparently permanent expansion in parallel of "welfare state'' and "industrial economy"for the inflation that has since proven the two to be incompatible beyond a point had not yet emerged as the major threat to economic growth and free institutions alike. England, to be sure, was seriously weak even then. But the sharp decline of English economic strength had not yet become apparent. And it was widely believed that England's entry into the European Common Market would provide a fast and complete cure for whatever ailed the English economy. There were, of course, plenty of dissenting voices in Europe, as there were in the United States in those days. But they were essentially the traditional nineteenth century voices of dissent, whether conservative, liberal, or Marxist. A dissent couched, as was The Age of Discontinuity, in a very different mode was almost bound to fall on deaf ears in the Europe of 1969. That The Age of Discontinuity is now rapidly becoming a widely read, widely discussed, and seriously considered book in Europe, may thus indicate a profound shift in Europe's perception of the world and of her own place in it. Above all, the Europe of 1969 was not ready to accept that modern government, that specific invention and

central institution of modern Europe, was in profound crisisthe Europe of 1978 knows it. There were plenty of books around in 1969 that predicted doom and gloom. There are even more such today. The Age of Discontinuity does not belong in this category. It is not an optimistic book, to be sure. But it does hold out some hope. It identifies and discusses very serious problems. But it sees them, above all, as great opportunities for fresh thinking, fresh policies, and for a great outburst of creative energy in political thought and political action, in educational thought and educational action, and in economic thought and economic action. The Age of Discontinuity deals with opportunities for human work and human accomplishment. I am, therefore, very pleased that this book of mine is being reissued now. I only hope that it will reach many new readers, and especially many new young readers. For it is the young, especially the educated young knowledge people, for whom the "age of discontinuity" should, above all, be an Age of Opportunity. PETER F. DRUCKER CLAREMONT, CALIFORNIA NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1978

PREFACE TO THE ORIGINAL EDITION In guerrilla country a handcar, light and expendable, rides ahead of the big, lumbering freight train to detonate whatever explosives might have been placed on the track. This book is such a "handcar." For the future is, of course, always "guerrilla country" in which the unsuspected and apparently insignificant derail the massive and seemingly invincible trends of today. Or, to change the metaphor, this book may be looked at as an "early-warning system,'' reporting discontinuities which, while still below the visible horizon, are already changing structure and meaning of economy, polity, and society. These discontinuities, rather than the massive momentum of the apparent trends, are likely to mold and shape our tomorrow, the closing decades of the twentieth century. These discontinuities are, so to speak, our "recent future"both already accomplished fact and challenges to come. Major discontinuities exist in four areas. 1. Genuinely new technologies are upon us. They are almost certain to create new major industries and brand-new major businesses and to render obsolete at the same time existing major industries and big businesses. The growth industries of the last half-century derived from the scientific discoveries of the middle and late nineteenth century. The growth industries of the last decades of the twentieth century are likely to emerge from the knowledge dis-

coveries of the first fifty and sixty years of this century: quantum physics, the understanding of atomic and molecular structure, biochemistry, psychology, symbolic logic. The coming decades in technology are more likely to resemble the closing decades of the last century, in which a major industry based on new technology surfaced every few years, than they will resemble the technological and industrial continuity of the past fifty years. 2. We face major changes in the world's economy. In economic policies and theories, we still act as if we lived in an "international" economy, in which separate nations are the units, dealing with one another primarily through international trade and fundamentally as different from one another in their economy as they are different in language or laws or cultural tradition. But imperceptibly there has emerged a world economy in which common information generates the same economic appetites, aspirations, and demandscutting across national boundaries and languages and largely disregarding political ideologies as well. The world has become, in other words, one market, one global shopping center. Yet this world economy almost entirely lacks economic institutions; the onlythough importantexception is the multinational corporation. And we are totally without economic policy and economic theory for a world economy. It is not yet a viable economy. The failure of new major economies to join the ranks of "advanced" and "developed" nations has created a fissure between rich (and largely white) and poor (and largely colored) nations that may swallow up both. The next decades must see drastic change. Either we learn how to restore the capacity for development that the nineteenth century possessed in such ample measureunder conditions for development that are quite differentor the twentieth century will make true, as Mao and Castro expect, the prophecy of class war, the sidetracking of which was the proudest achievement of the generation before World War I. Only the war would now be between races rather than classes. 3. The political matrix of social and economic life is changing fast. Today's society and polity are pluralistic. Every single social task of importance today is entrusted to a large institution organized for perpetuity and run by managers. Where the assumptions that govern what we expect and see are still those of the individualistic society of

year 1933, when both Hitler and Roosevelt came to power. And yet anyone middle-aged today still experiences 1933 as "current events." I envy the courage of the seers who tell us what 2000 may look like. But I have no desire to emulate them. I remember too well what the future looked like in 1933. No forecaster could then have imagined our reality of 1968. Nor could anyone, a generation earlier in 1900, have anticipated or forecast the realities of 1933. All we can ever predict is continuity that extends yesterday's trends into tomorrow. What has already happened is the only thing we can project and the only thing that can be quantified. But these continuing trends, however important, are only one dimension of the future, only one aspect of reality. The most accurate quantitative projection never predicts the truly important: the meaning of the facts and figures in the context of a different tomorrow. It would have been highly optimistic in 1950, less than twenty years ago, to predict that the United States could in this century reduce poverty to where fewer than one-tenth of white families and fewer than one-third of Negro families live below the "poverty threshold." Yet we achieved this by 1966. Even in 1959, in the closing years of the Eisenhower Administration, it would have been considered almost utopian to predict that within one decade the number of families in poverty would be reduced by almost one-half, from more than 8 to fewer than 5 millionsthe concrete achievement of the sixties. Yet during this period we sharply raised the income level that defines "poverty." The correct figures could perhaps have been forecast. But today, only ten years later, what controls the country's mood and shapes its policiesnot to mention its picture of itselfwould have been quite unpredictable by any statistical, projective method: a change in the meaning, the quality, the perception of our experience. In 1959 the accent was all on our affluence. In 1969 it is all on the poor. This book tries to look at these other dimensions, at the qualitative and the structural, the perceptions, the meaning and the values, the opportunities and the priorities. It is limited in its subject matter to the social scene. But there it takes a broad view, looking at economics and politics, at social issues, at technology, and at the universe of

learning and knowledge. Only incidentally does it concern itself, however, with those great realms of individual experience, the arts and man's spiritual life. This book does not project trends; it examines discontinuities. It does not forecast tomorrow; it looks at today. It does not ask, "What will tomorrow look like?" It asks instead, "What do we have to tackle today to make tomorrow?" PETER F. DRUCKER MONTCLAIR, NEW JERSEY SUMMER, 1968

PART ONE THE KNOWLEDGE TECHNOLOGIES

1 The End of Continuity No one knowing only the economic facts and figures of 1968 and of 1913and ignorant both of the years in between and of anything but economic figureswould even suspect the cataclysmic events of this century such as two world wars, the Russian and Chinese revolutions, or the Hitler regime. They seem to have left no traces in the statistics. The tremendous economic expansion throughout the industrial world in the last two decades has by and large only made up for the three decades of stagnation between the two world wars. And the expansion has in the main been confined to nations that were already "advanced" industrial nations by 1913or were at least rapidly advancing. Our time, all of us would agree, is a time of momentous changesin politics and in science, in world view and in mores, in the arts and in warfare. But in the one area where most people think the changes have been the greatest, the last half-century has been in reality a period of amazing and almost unparalleled continuity: in the economy. The economic expansion of the last twenty years has been very fast. But it has been carried largely by industries that were already "big business" before World War I. It has been based on technologies that were firmly established by 1913 to exploit inventions made in the half-century before. Technologically the last fifty years have

been the fulfillment of the promises bequeathed to us by our Victorian grandparents rather than the years of revolutionary change the Sunday supplements talk about. Imagine a good economist who fell asleep in July, 1914, just before "the guns of August" shattered the world of the Victorians. He wakes up now, more than fifty years later, and, being a good economist, he immediately reaches for the latest economic reports and figures. This Rip Van Winkle would be a mighty surprised mannot because the economy has changed so much, but because it has changed so very much less during fifty years than any economist (let alone a good one) would have expected. The figures would show that by the mid-sixties all economically advanced countries had, on the whole, reached the levels of production and income they would have attained had the economic trends of the thirty or so years before 1914 continued, basically unchanged, for another fifty years. The one important exception to this might be Russia, where production and income today are probably well below what the pre-1914 growth rates had promised. We know the reason, of course. It is the political straitjacket into which the Communists forced Russian agriculture just when the technological revolution got going on the farm. As a result, Russia, in 1913 one of the world's largest food exporters, now can barely feed her own population. Yet she still keeps nearly half her people on the landat least twice as many as would be needed had Russian farm productivity been allowed to grow at the rate at which it grew between 1900 and 1913. All other countries that had reached by 1913 what is now called the "take-off point" in economic developmentthe United States, the countries of Western and Central Europe, and Japanare today roughly where a long-range projection of the growth trends of the years between 1885 and 1913 would have put them half a century later, that is, today. This is true even of Britain; by 1913 her growth had already slowed to a crawl. Even more amazing: our Rip Van Winkle economist would find the economic geography of the world quite unchanged in its structure. Every single area that is today a major industrial power was

already well along the road to industrial leadership in 1913. No major new industrial country has joined the club since. Brazil, at least in its central region, may be on the threshold of emergence, but she is not there yet. Otherwise, only areas that are, in effect, extensions of the old industrial regions, such as Canada, Mexico, and Australia, have grown to industrial stature, and, at that, mainly as satellite economies. In the half-century before 1913, the economic map of the world had been changing as fast and as drastically as the physical map of the world had changed during the age of discovery in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. Between 1860 and 1870, both the United States and Germany had surfaced as new, big industrial powers and had rapidly forged ahead of the old champion, Great Britain. Twenty years later, Russia, Japan, the present Czechoslovakia, and the present Austria had soared aloft, with Northern Italy following closely behind. The fact that economic development, which seemed so easy and effortless then, even for a non-Western country like Japan, has since World War I become so difficult as to be apparently unattainable is not only a fundamental economic contrast between our era and that of the Victorians and Edwardians. It is also the greatest political threat todaycomparable only to the threat of class war inside industrial society before 1913. If our Rip Van Winkle economist should turn to industrial structure and technology, he would find himself equally (and equally unexpectedly) on familiar ground. Of course, there are hundreds of products around that would be unfamiliar to him: electric appliances, TV sets, jet planes, antibiotics, the computer. But in terms of economic structure and growth, the load is still being carried by the same industries and largely by the same technologies that carried it in 1913. The main engine of economic growth in the developed countries during the last twenty years has been agriculture. In all these countries (excepting only Russia and her European satellites), productivity on the farm has been increasing faster than in the manufacturing industries. Yet the technological revolution in agriculture had begun well before 1913. Most of the "new" agricultural technologytractors, fertilizer, improved seeds

and breedshad been around for many years. The "good" farmer of today has just about reached the productivity and output of the "model farm" of 1913. Second only to farming as a moving force behind our recent economic expansion is steel. World steel capacity has grown fivefold since 1946, with Russia and Japan in the lead. But steel production had become synonymous with economic muscle well before World War I. Almost all the steel mills built since World War II use processes that date back to the 1860's and were already considered obsolescent fifty years ago. The automobile industryprobably number three in the growth parade todaywas also well advanced when World War I started. Henry Ford turned out a quarter-million Model T's in 1913more than the Soviet Union has yet produced in any one year. And there is not one major feature on any car anywhere today that could not have been found on some commercially available make in 1913. The electrical apparatus, the telephone, and the organic-chemical industries were already giants fifty years ago. General Electric, Westinghouse, Siemens, the Bell Telephone System, and the German chemical companies were by then well-established blue chips. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company and British Shell were hardly struggling infants; they were the "octopuses" of 1913 with tentacles into every country in the world. And though electronics was just beginning its growth then, it was already large enough to spawn, in the British "Marconi Affair" of 1912, a scandal so big and juicy that it threatened the political life of the first of the new breed of "democratic" leaders, Lloyd George. Of course, all around us there are new industries and new technologies. But as the economist defines "importance"that is, by contribution to gross national product, personal income, and employmentthese new industries are still almost negligible, at least to the civilian economy. The airplane began to make an economic impact only with the coming of jets in the 1960's. Air freight is only now growing at a phenomenal rate. When the big "jumbo jets" begin to fly around 1970, the freight plane may well, within a few years, make obsolete the oceangoing cargo ship just as the truck has broken the railroad

monopoly on land in the last thirty years. So far, however, air freight is still a lesser factor in world transportation than bullock or burro. Only now, when IBM is turning them out at a rate of a thousand a month, are computers starting to have substantial economic impact. The pharmaceutical industry has all but made over the practice of medicine in the last thirty years. Thanks to new drugs, health care has become the ''best buy" on the market and a universal demand; as a result health services and their financing are everywhere becoming a governmental concern, just as schooling went public 150 years ago when literacy first became a profitable investment for the individual. Yet economicallythat is, in terms of employment or of direct contribution to national productthe pharmaceutical industry is still hardly visible to the naked eye and is a pygmy next to such traditional industries as food processing, railroading, or textiles. Of all the new industries only one has, so far, attained major economic importance (as the economist measures importance). It is plastics. Even plastics were looked upon until a very few years ago as "substitutes"ersatzrather than a major new industry and technology in their own right. And even the plastics industry today is only a faint premonition of what the "materials" industry of tomorrow is likely to be, both economically and technologically. The new industries with their new technologies loom much larger in our eyes than the old familiar steel mills and automobile assembly plants. They capture our imagination and furnish the glamour stocks in our investment portfolios. But if all of them (except plastics), with all their output and all their jobs, were taken out of the figures for the civilian economy, the difference would hardly show in national income or total employment, that is, in the figures by which the economist measures economic strength and growth. An economist of 1913 could, therefore, have forecast the industry structure of the 1960's with reasonable accuracy. Only no sane economist of that time would have dreamed of forecasting continuity. The relative stability in technologies and industries during the last fifty years is in the sharpest imaginable contrast to the turbulence

of the half-century before. The fifty years that came to an end with World War I produced most of the inventions that underlie our modern industrial civilization. Synthetic dyes (and with them the organic-chemical industry), the Bessemer steel process and the Siemens electrical generator came in the late 1850's and 1860's. The electric light bulb and the phonograph were invented (both by Edison) in the 1870's. In the same decade appeared the typewriter and the telephone, which together took respectable women out of the home and into the office and thus led, in another half-century, to female emancipation and suffrage. In the 1880's came the automobile. In the same decade came aluminumtogether with the slightly older vulcanized rubber, the first truly new material since the Chinese first made paper around the time of Christ. Marconi's wireless and aspirin (the first effective synthetic drug and the beginning of the pharmaceutical industry) were developed in the 1890's, the Wright brothers' airplane in 1903, the electronic tube (de Forrest and Armstrong) in 1912. Most industrial technology today is an extension and modification of the inventions and technologies of that remarkable half-century before World War I. This continuity, in turn, has made for stable industry structure. Every one of the great nineteenth-century inventions gave birth, almost overnight, to a new major industry and to new big businesses. These are still the major industries and big businesses of today. The best example is the rebuilding of industrial Germany after World War II. The same companies dominate the German economy today and are the blue chips of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange that dominated German economy and stock exchanges in 1913. Their names are unchanged; their product scopes, their markets, their technologies are largely unchangedthey are only much, much bigger. To be sure, this faithful, almost antiquarian, restoration of preWorld War I German industry overdid it. The Krupp concern was rebuilt by the last bearer of the name to look as much as possible like the empire his grandfather had left behind around 1900an empire of coal mines, steel mills, and shipyardsand had to be taken over by the banks under a government guarantee in 1967. But the reason for failure was the old and

familiar nemesis of industrial empire builders: financial overextension, rather than the ancestor worship of the last Krupp. Indeed, even the technoeconomic "catastrophes" that we are so widely threatened with are still in the future rather than the present. The "population explosion" has not, so far, caused large-scale famine and pestilence. We would actually still worry a good deal about "unsalable surpluses" of farm crops if Russia had continued to increase farm productivity at the preWorld War I rate (let alone if Russian farm productivity had shown anything like the explosive growth of American agriculture). And while we have the technological means to control population, not even the pill has so far had a major impact in the poor countries of rapid population growth. The world of the New Left and of the hippies, of Op Art and of Mao Tse-tung's Cultural Revolution, of H-bombs and moon rockets, seems further removed from the certainties and perceptions of the Victorians and Edwardians than they were from the Age of the Migration at the end of antiquity. But in the economy, in industrial geography, industrial structure, and industrial technology, we are still very much the heirs of the Victorians. Measured by the yardsticks of the economist, the last half-century has been an Age of Continuitythe period of least change in three hundred years or so, that is, since world commerce and systematic agriculture first became dominant economic factors in the closing decades of the seventeenth century. The growth during this period of continuity has been great, especially in the countries that were already well advanced before 1913. But the growth has been largely along lines that had been laid down well and truly in those distant days of our grandparents and great-grandparents. What is amazing is perhaps not that it took a half-century for the work and thought of those earlier generations to bring full fruit. It is that the generation of 1900, which we tend today to look down on as stodgy stick-in-the-muds, laid down economic foundations of such strength and excellence that they have prevailed over all the wickedness, criminal insanity, and suicidal violence of the last fifty years. The towering economic achievements of today, the affluent, mass-

consumption economies of the advanced countries, their productivity and their technological powers, are built four-square on Victorian and Edwardian foundations and out of building blocks quarried then. They are, above all, a fulfillment of the economic and technological promises of the Victorian and Edwardian eras and a testimony to their economic vision. Now, however, we face an Age of Discontinuity in world economy and technology. We might succeed in making it an age of great economic growth as well. But the one thing that is certain so far is that it will be a period of changein technology and in economic policy, in industry structures and in economic theory, in the knowledge needed to govern and to manage, and in economic issues. While we have been busy finishing the great nineteenth-century economic edifice, the foundations have shifted under our feet.

2 The New Industries and Their Dynamics Forecasting "technological marvels" is high fashion these days. Hardly a month goes by without the well-publicized appearance of a new list of future "miracle" products and processes. But no matter how persuasive these forecasts * may be, they rarely mention the most important qualitative and structural features of the technology ahead for the last third of the twentieth centuryeven though these are infinitely more important than any invention, product, or process. First, major expansion of the economies of the industrially developed countries, both those of the West and those of the Communist world, cannot be carried any further by the industries and technologies that have provided the dynamics of growth for the last one hundred years. In the developed countries, these industries have become "mature" industriesthe economist's euphemism for incipient senility. Only in underdeveloped or developing nations can these industries still provide the technological foundation for rapid and extensive economic growth. Between 1850 and 1870 the center of economic gravity shifted from the industries of the Industrial Revolutioncoal and steam, * Most persuasive perhaps is a list of "one hundred technical innovations likely in the next 33 years," devised by Herman Kahn and Anthony J. Wiener of the Hudson Institute. See their article "The Next Thirty-three Years: A Framework for Speculation," Daedalus, Summer, 1967.

textiles, and machine toolsto new and different industries: steel and electricity, organic chemicals, and the internal-combustion engine. Now, a hundred years later, we are in the early stages of a similar and equally drastic shift to industries based not only on new and different technologies but also on different science, different logic, and different perception. They are also different in their work force, for they demand knowledge workers rather than manual workers. These industries are capable of providing rapid economic growth in jobs, opportunities, income, standards of living, and aspirations for many decades, if not for another century. And they are very unlikely to emerge except in countries that have a solid industrial and educational foundationthat is, in the developed countries. The Aging "Modern" Industries Technologically, the established "modern" industries may still enjoy a long period of growth and advance. Financiallythat is, as investment channelsthey may be highly attractive and offer rich returns. They may even grow at a good clip in the years ahead. But in their ability to provide the thrust for further substantial growth of the developed economies, they are mature, if not stagnant. No matter how much they themselves grow and prosper, they will lose increasingly the capacity to contribute to rising national incomes, to increased employment and career opportunities. They will increasingly be unable to provide economic dynamics for the developed countries. To clarify, and also to illustrate, this conclusion, I shall take a brief look at the three industries that, together, have powered the tremendous growth of the developed economies of the West (and of Japan) in the last twenty years: agriculture, steel, and automobiles. 1. Agriculture has been the most spectacular performer in the growth parade. In the United States, ten out of every twenty members of the labor force were still working on the land in 1900. At the end of World War II, in 1945, the United States still had almost one-third of the population on the farm. Now fewer than one-tenth of the labor force work as farmers. They produce, however, many times more food and farm crops than the much larger number

produced sixty years ago. The indirect contribution of agriculture to the national product, to incomes, and to the standard of living may be greater still. The people who are no longer needed to work on the land have provided the labor force for an expanding manufacturing industry, for the services, and for the rapidly growing information and knowledge employments. The transfer of marginal farmers and farm workers to urban employment has by itself probably been the largest single factor in the rise of national productivity. A good many of these farm workers moving from the land to the city did not go into very productive employment; but since in many cases they had had no productivity at all on the marginal farm, even employment as waiters or as handymen represented a sharp increase in their productivity, in their incomes, and in the economy altogether. In Japan, too, the tremendous economic expansion of the last twenty years was fueled, above all, by a sharp shift of labor resources from farm jobs with marginal productivity to city jobs with higher productivity. Farm population in Japan was almost 60 per cent of total population at the end of World War II. It is barely 20 per cent now. In Germany and France farm population is still quite high, though a great deal lower than it was only twenty years ago. But in Germany and France (and also in Northern Italy and Switzerland) a tremendous increase in productivity resulted from the importation of formerly nonproductive farm dwellers from Southern Italy and Sicily and from Greece, Turkey, Spain, and Portugal into urban jobs in the industrialized areas. One of the reasons for Britain's economic difficulties these last twenty years has been the lack of such a reserve of marginal farmers to move into new industries; this shift from country to city had taken place in Britain a hundred years before. There simply were no people left in Britain who could have left the land in the last two decades. This explains in large measure why the new highly productive industries in Britain have been plagued by constant labor shortages. As a result, Great Britain lacked the built-in, almost automatic increase in the productivity of the whole economy which galvanized the rest of the industrialized West. In Soviet Russia the underemployed reservoir of rural labor is tremendous. But the collective farm has served to retain people on

the land, thus both holding down farm productivity and creating labor shortages in the cities, especially in the service industries. New industries could, therefore, grow in Russia only by withholding from the consumer the benefits of economic growth. The available figures are not too helpful. But it seems probable that one-half or more of the total increase in productivityranging from an average of 3 per cent a year in the United States in the two decades after World War II to an average of 6 or 7 per cent in Japan for the same periodcan be attributed to this shift in population. Better performance in the existing industries is rarely the main cause of rising productivity. The central cause is usually a change in the "mix" as new industries with high productivity grow faster than old industries with low productivity. This change in the "mix" was brought about, in the last twenty years, largely by a shift of workers from farm work with very low productivity to more productive urban employments. And this, in turn, was made possible by the rapid expansion of agricultural technology, which made it increasingly possible for a very small number of highly trained, highly equipped "commercial" farmers to produce very large outputs. Farm technology is still advancing, and a period of very fast increase in farm productivity for the developed countries may be just ahead. Many already available technologies are not yet in general use. The "systems approach" is just beginning to be applied to the farm crops with the highest valuefruits, vegetables and meat animalswhich still, in many ways, are being produced by yesterday's laborintensive methods with fairly low productivity. We are now, for instance, for the first time, developing "systems" for cultivating tomatoes from the planting of the seedlings to the packaging of the ripe fruit for shipment. And we do this by developing, in parallel, genetic selection of new varieties of tomatoes suitable for machine cultivation and machines suitable for tomato growing. It is not at all unlikely that agricultural productivity, which has been growing by and large at twice the rate of increase of manufacturing productivity, will grow even faster during the next decade. And yet this expansion would have little impact on the developed

industrial economies. The agricultural population by now has simply become too small. Even if the American farmer doubled his productivity in ten yearsan almost unprecedented feat in economic historyhe would add only four or five percentage points to the national product, especially because such an increase would be confined to the even smaller number of commercial farmers, no more than a million perhaps, who produce practically the entire farm output that goes to market. Things are not much different in the other developed countries. There, too, the number of productive commercial farmers is by now so small that even a sharp increase in their productivity, while undoubtedly highly beneficial to them, is unlikely to have great impact on the total national economy. At the same time, the reservoir of employable people in low-productivity jobs on the farm has almost disappeared. In the United States, this is one of the reasons for the problem of the unemployable young man in the city who has moved off the farm in the last few years. He comes from a background of no productivity, to be sure, but he is also not prepared by schooling or trained by habit for any work. Even for the simplest jobs of minimal productivity, he needs highly expensive training in habits, elementary literacy, and skills. What are left, in other words, as "marginal" farmers are people who need to be rehabilitated first before they can be productively employed at all. Similarly in Japan, a substantial part of the remaining small farmers are old people or young children still in school. In Western Europe the reservoir might seem a good deal larger. There are still many able-bodied men and women working on uneconomical, small farms with outmoded tools and obsolete methodsin the Bavarian mountains, for instance, or on the stony acres of Brittany. But there the social resistance to a shift from the farm, which is as much a way of life as it is a living, is tremendous. As General de Gaulle has learned, any government has to preserve the winegrowers who grow no grapes and the dairy farmers who produce no milk, no matter how beneficial it would be for the national economy if this reservoir of able-bodied labor were to be tapped for productive employment in industry. There is still huge unemployment in Southern Italy and Sicily. But again the manpower that has stayed behind during these years of

mass migration into the industrial north consists largely of older people, women, and children. The young men and women are gone in the main; those left behind are not easily employable. Instead of a resource these remaining rural people are a social problem. They would require large investment in education, in health, and in skills before they could be moved into any employment. This explains why Italian industry is becoming reluctant to put any more factories into the south despite the grave labor shortage in the industrial north. Of all the industrially developed areas, only European Russia and Russia's European satellites are exceptions. There the farm population is still almost as large as it was around the time of World War I, with low productivity, even of the best "commercial farmers," and a large reservoir of able-bodied, intelligent, and motivated people. But to tap this reservoir would require political changes that no Communist regime is likely to risk. At the least, the country would first have to pump tremendous investment into the farm economyinto housing, credit, education, health, and so onbefore it could modernize agriculture and sharply reduce the farm population. Economically, this would appear to be the most intelligent thing the Communist countries could do. But politically it would demand a complete reversal of policies that are the foundation of the Soviet regime and essential to its staying in power. In the developed countries, therefore, it seems likely that from here on out even substantial advances in farm technology and farm productivity will not have major impact on the over-all economy. On the contrary, to the extent to which such advances force off the land the remaining nonproductive rural people (the people whom the census calls "farmers" even though, as a rule, they produce no farm products), rising farm productivity might even retard economic growth. The social problem of a farm proletariat that is unemployable in the city might well cause such a drag on the over-all economy as to upset whatever boost is supplied by rising farm productivityat least for a decade or two. Agriculture in the developed countries has become the most productive, the most capital-intensive, the most highly mechanized, and altogether the most "industrial" of all modern industries. It is an "industry" with a very high input of scientific knowledge per unit of

production. From being the most traditional sector, agriculture in the developed countries has become the most progressive sector. Modern agriculture is capable of producing a great deal more than it produces today. In fact, ten years hence, every developed country should be able to raise considerably more farm produce than it can consume itself. This is true not only of North America and Western Europe but also of Japan, even though the best agricultural economists, Japanese as well as American, predicted incurable chronic starvation conditions for the country only twenty years ago. British agriculture might well be capable of the greatest expansion of all, if only because it is not plaguedas are all the othersby the social problem of an uneconomically small and unproductive marginal farmer. There is, in other words, good reason for the apparent schizophrenia of all ministries of agriculture in the developed countries that predict worldwide famine while fighting desperately for markets for their own farm surpluses. But even a star performance of agriculture and agricultural productivity could not provide the thrust to the economy of the developed countries that agricultural expansion provided in the last two decades. 2. During World War II, the second and third largest steel industries of the time, those of Germany and Russia, were completely destroyed. Yet the world has now about five times the steelmaking capacity it had in 1939. In terms of tonnage, the greatest increase has been in the United States and in other old steel countries. But the greatest relative growth among the developed nations has been in the two countries that, measured against their population and the size of their economy, were still ''underdeveloped" in steel twenty-five years ago: Russia and Japan. Japan, almost negligible as a steelmaking country before World War II, now ranks ahead of Germany and Great Britain as the third largest producer. Even more spectacular has been the development of the steel industries in countries that did not make any steel at all twenty-five years agothat is, in the developing countries such as in Latin America, where even small nations now have their own sizable steel mills. This expansion of steel capacity in countries that only recently had little or no such capacity underlies the growth and prosperity of the steel industries of the old steelmaking countries, and above all of

the United States. For a steelmaking plant is first and foremost a steel-consuming plant. It takes a great many tons of steel to build capacity to make one single ton a year; before steel can be produced it has to be consumed in large quantities. These, of course, could only come from the existing mills, and for the first ten years after the war, the United States was the only country that had an undamaged steel industry capable of volume production and of supplying the steel needed to rebuild destroyed plants in Germany and to build new ones all over the globe. But this boom, resulting from the explosive expansion of steel capacity, masked a wasting sickness of the industry. In the advanced countries, and above all in the United States, steel, since World War II, has lost a full quarter of its traditional markets to competitive materials such as glass, plastics, concrete, and paper. Such losses have occurred in containers and packaging, where plastic-impregnated paper is being used to make heavy containersoil drums, for instancefor which, only a few decades ago, steel was used exclusively. Increasingly, plastics, aluminum, and paper are being used to make the traditional "tin" can, again a steel monopoly only a few years ago. Pre-stressed concrete has become a serious competitor to steel in bridges as well as in building construction, and so on. Steel is still the most widely used and most versatile material, but there are now few uses in which it is the exclusive material. For every single application there is at least one other material that does the specific job at least as well, and often better. Three of the four major industries that carried the early Industrial Revolutioncotton, coal, and railroadsdeclined sharply in this century. Iron and steel, the fourth industry, was saved by the technological innovations of the mid-nineteenth century, especially the Bessemer and Siemens-Martin processes, which produced cheap steels to take the place of the irons of the first century of industrialization. But during the last twenty-five years, steel has come closer and closer to being marginal and to sinking into the same chronic crisis that has overtaken the other foundation industries of the modern world. The reason for this has been known for at least fifty years. The steelmaking process, invented more than a century ago and basically unchanged until recently, is a grossly uneconomical process in terms

of both physics and economics. Changing temperatures is one of the most expensive operations. Yet the steelmaking process creates high temperatures three times, only to quench them immediately, which is just as expensive as heating. Equally expensive in terms of cost and effort is moving weight. Yet in the steelmaking process, hot melted steel in highly corrosive form is carried again and again over considerable distances. No amount of ingenuity can make such a process economical; it has inherently high costs. For steel to recapture its traditional capacity to grow faster than the economy, or at least as fast, it would have to come out of a process with much lower costs. In order to regain its growth dynamics, steel would probably have to cost at least one-third less than it costs now. Such a technological revolution in steelmaking has now begun. The new oxygen process, developed during World War II in Austria and made capable of handling large tonnages in the last ten years, is a major step toward converting steelmaking from a mechanical to a chemical industry. Equally important are such changes in process as "continuous casting," which eliminates wastes of temperature and substitutes gravity flow of raw steel to and through the finishing equipment for the expensive and dangerous lifting, hauling, and moving of individual batches. There are also such new and still experimental methods as a new English spray process that would do away with practically the entire steel mill and replace it by a continuous chemical flow producing finished steel directly from the raw materials. If steel, by means of these new processes, becomes economically competitive again, it might well be once more a major growth industry, even in the industrially developed countries. But the steel industry would first have to go through a severe financial crisis. Almost all the steel mills operating today are based on old processes and would have to be scrapped or completely rebuilt. In fact, a great many of tomorrow's mills, based on new processes, would not be built where today's mills are, but rather at deep-water ports where iron ore can be unloaded easily. The European steel industry in particular is in the wrong location. And so, it would seem, is a good deal of Russia's as well as America's oldest mills in Pittsburgh.

Even without physical relocation, the shift from the old technology, with its tremendous investment in huge mills, to tomorrow's technology, requiring equally large investments (even though the individual units might be a good deal smaller), would be long and painful. The underdeveloped and developing countries might be able to escape it. First, they still have little steel capacity individually, so that they could shift to new technology for their future mills. Second, their mills do not have to be competitive and could be justified, despite high costs, in terms of the savings in foreign exchange they produce (though this is a dubious argument). But in the developed countries the steel industry has to be competitive. Even if protected against imports, it has to be able to supply its own industries at the lowest possible cost. In the developed countries the users can switch to other materials in abundant supply. Hence no amount of protectionismsomething the steel industry has always believed in everywherecan really change the basic situation. Even with lower costs brought about by new and expensive technology, steel, in the developed countries, can only hope to regain some of the ground it has lost. A repetition of the world steel demand that underlay the last two decades of steel boom is not likely. In India, in Latin America, in China apparently, in South Africa, the steel industry has reached the point it had reached in America around 1885. It no longer needs to import steel to build additional steel plants. The steelmakers of the poor countries are likely from now on to import specialized machinery and equipment rather than steel itself. Therefore, despite technological change and despite much lower costs, steel may still, within the next ten or twenty years, become a chronically depressed industry. No other one of the traditional materials is as likely to be threatened by the new "materials" industry (discussed in the next section). 3. Third in importance as a generator of rapid growth in the industrially developed countries during the last twenty years was the automotive industry. It played a major part, perhaps the major part, in the rapid growth of Western Europe and Japan. But it also grew considerably in the United States. There may still be fair growth opportunities for the automobile industry in the developed countries.

In Russia, where the geographic conditions are much like those of the United States, the automobile boom has barely begun. Above all, the secondary impact of the automobile on the economy and societyroads, service stations, tourist travel, and hotelsis still to come in Russia. In the underdeveloped countries, the automobile industry is certain to be the major growth industry, if there is any growth. The automobile represents a major value choice of modern man. It represents mobility and freedom. It is also one of the main energizers of modern society and in itself a propellant toward economic growth and development. It knits together a nation. It makes possible the movement of people from marginal, unproductive rural work toward productive employment. Without the automobile, the large-scale shift of manpower from marginal farming into urban jobs would not have taken place, at least not at the same speed. And, perhaps its most important impact, the automobile creates demand, simply because here is one economic possession that even the most self-sufficient tribesman in the most remote village covets. That Brazil within the last few years has built and can support a substantial automobile industry of its own is impressive evidence that the country is approaching, and may indeed have reached, the "takeoff point" in economic development at which economic and industrial growth become self-sustaining. But in the developed countries (outside of Russia) the automobile, no matter how much growth it still has ahead, is clearly on the defensive. The increasing congestion of the cities makes the automobile less and less serviceable as transportation. We will put emphasis increasingly on alternative methods of mass transportation for people as well as for goods. Otherwise congestion will choke our cities to death and asphyxiate all of us through air pollution. It is only a matter of time before the internal combustion engine, if not the automobile itself, will be banned from the central city. A few years ago the mere mention of this would have produced an uproar from an indignant citizenry. But when New York's Commissioner of Air Pollution recently stated that the automobile would soon have to be banned permanently from four or five of the city's most important thoroughfares, such as Times Square, everybody accepted this as obvious, if not as overdue. And though the proposals of the ministers of transportation in Great

Britain and Germany to take heavy trucks off the highways or penalize them severely had to be modified when the truckers protested, the population in general, and especially the respective parliaments, apparently acquiesced. It is even possible that Western Europe and to a lesser extent Japan are already close to automotive saturation. In number of cars per square mile Western Europe is as highly motorized as any part of the United States. And even if the proper measurement is the number of automobiles per family, Western Europe and, with a few years' lag, Japan have increased automotive density so fast these last twenty years that progress from now on must be substantially slower. In the developing countries, the love affair between man and the automobile is perhaps only just beginning (this is certainly the case in Russia). The young everywhere want to be on wheels. But in the developed countries, and especially among adults, the automobile is turning from a passion into a convenience and a utility. It is a necessity, but no longer a great ego need and "status symbol." The uproar over automobile safety in the United States the last few years was, in all likelihood, the violent quarrel that always accompanies the end of a long liaison. It is entirely conceivable, to repeat, that these "modern industries" still have substantial growth ahead. Certainly they should provide the fastest growth in the developing countriesIndia and Pakistan, South America, and Southeast Asia. Indeed these are the industries on which the development of these countries has to be based. For their technology can be imported, ready-made, from the developed countries. And developing countries need so much creative energy for social and cultural innovation that they cannot afford the risky, dangerous, and demanding process of technological innovation on top of it. Moreover, the main "modern" industries, such as agriculture, automobiles, and petrochemicals, are ideal foundation for rapid economic growth in a developing economy. They combine high immediate economic impact with great multiplier effect. A rapidly modernizing agriculture not only produces the food without which an economy cannot possibly grow, but it also creates demands for a

great many new industriesfrom fertilizers to farm equipment, from repair shops to farm credit, from transportation and roads to food processingwhich, in turn, give high and well-paid employment. The automotive industry similarly creates about eight jobs for every worker in the manufacturing plants themselvesin road building and road maintenance, in gas stations, repair stations, dealerships, and so on. At the same time, these industries produce high satisfaction for the consumer. They, therefore, generate great development energy throughout the population. Their rapid expansion in the poor developing countries would also generate economic opportunities for the developed countries by creating export markets the way the building of steel mills throughout the world brought boom to the steel mills of the developed countries. Even if there were no new industries on the horizon, there need be no depression in the developed countries. There could be a period of high-level economic activity, high employment, and great affluence, based on the demands of the developing countries for equipment, supplies, and advanced products. Still, while comfortable, this is too much like the kind of prosperity Britain has had these last thirty or forty years. The British have learned that what looked like affluence and ease was really slow but steady weakening. It is vitally important that the developing countries build their economies rapidly; and they can only do so around these "modern" industries of the last fifty years. But while this may be enough for the developing countriesand it is more than they have been able to do these last twenty years, by and largeit is not enough for the developed countries. They need a dynamism of their own. They need growth. And this the aging "modern" industries can no longer supply. Small wonder then, that we hear predictions of "technological maturity" or "technological stagnation." The most widely discussed economic tract of the last few years, John Kenneth Galbraith's The New Industrial State, * is squarely based on this prediction. We heard a similar prediction in the late thirties when all the talk * (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1967).

among economists was of the "economic maturity" of the Westthe United States in particularand of the resulting economic stagnation. This prediction was almost immediately followed by the greatest economic expansion the Western world has ever experienced in a comparable time span. Today, too, there is a good chance that the prediction of technological maturity and resulting stagnation will be followed by tremendous technological change and economic expansion. Of course, even the most glowing prospects can be aborted by human stupiditymankind has shown its capacity for crippling itself only too often in this century. But unless the West engages in the criminal folly of another major war or another major depression, it can anticipate the rapid rise of major new industries based on major new technologies. What's on the Horizon Four new industries are already in sight. The Information Industry There is a great deal more to information and data processing than the computer; the computer is to the information industry roughly what the central power station is to the electrical industry. The electrical industry became a certainty when Ernst Werner von Siemens invented the first practical generator in 1856. But the electrical industry only became a reality twenty-three years later, in 1879, when Edison designed the electric light bulb. In between there was furious activity with a host of highly talented inventors at work. If it had been fashionable then to speak of "first-generation," "second-generation," or "third-generation'' generators, as it is now fashionable to speak of "first-generation," "second-generation," or "third-generation" computers, there would have been a "fifth-generation" or a "sixth-generation" generator before there really was any widespread use of electric power. Practically every single one of the major electric-apparatus companies (like Westinghouse) that are still household words today was already founded by 1879 in every industrial country, including such small ones as Sweden, Switzerland, and Hungary. But it was only Edison's light bulb that made possible the use of electricity as a universal form of energy.

Without the central power station there would be no electrical industry; without the computer there would be no information industry. And yet most of the money in the electrical industry and most of the engineering and technical ingenuity as well have been invested in the equipment to transmit and to apply, whether power lines, lights, motors, or appliances. Similarly most of the money and most of the ingenuity of the information industry will go into the transmission and application of information rather than into its generation and storage, that is, into the computer. And most of the profit will come from transmission and application too. Since the computer first appeared in the late 1940's the information industry has been a certainty. But we do not have it yet. We still do not have the effective means to build an "information system." This is where the work is going on, however. The tools to create information systems may already exist: the communications satellite and other means of transmitting information, microfilm and the TV tube to display and store it, rapid printers to reduce it to permanent record, and so on. There is no technical reason why someone like Sears Roebuck should not come out tomorrow with an appliance selling for less than a TV set, capable of being plugged in wherever there is electricity, and giving immediate access to all the information needed for schoolwork from first grade through college. Yet though IBM is now shipping computers at the rate of a thousand a month, we do not have the equivalent of Edison's light bulb. What we are lacking is not a piece of hardware like the light bulb. What we still have to create is the conceptual understanding of information. As long as we have to translate laboriously every set of data into a separate "program," we do not understand information. We have to be capable of classifying information according to its characteristics. We have to have a "notation," comparable to the one St. Ambrose invented 1,600 years ago to record music, that can express words and thoughts in symbols appropriate to electronic pulses rather than in the clumsy computer language of today. Then each person could, with very little training, store his own data within a general system, that is, in what the computer engineers call a "routine." Then we shall have true ''information systems."

Twenty years hence it may be as unlikely for individual users, even big companies, to have their own large computers as it is today unlikely for an individual manufacturing plant to have its own power station. Sixty years ago, a plant had to have its own power station if it wanted electricity. Now it gets power through "time-sharing" from a central station. Similarly, information a few years hence may be primarily on some "timesharing" basis, in which a great many users have their data on one and the same computer, with complete privacy but also with complete and immediate access at all times. Already the cost of information is going down drastically. A few years ago one hour of computer time cost several thousand dollars. It now costs perhaps one hundred to two hundred dollars. Ten years hence it may cost as little as a dollar or two. Eventually it should cost no more than an hour of lighting, that is, a penny or less. In one important respect the computer differs greatly from the electric generator: an information industry can function without a computer. This shows clearly in the field of education. Learning and teaching are going to be more deeply affected by the new availability of information than any other area of human life. There is great need for a new approach, new methods and new tools in teaching, man's oldest and most reactionary craft. There is great need for a rapid increase in the productivity of learning. There is, above all, great need for methods that will make the teacher effective and multiply his or her efforts and competence. Teaching is, in fact, the only traditional craft in which we have not yet fashioned the tools that make an ordinary person capable of superior performance. In this respect, teaching is far behind medicine, where the tools first became available a century or more ago. It is, of course, infinitely behind the mechanical crafts where we have had effective apprenticeship for thousands and thousands of years. We need a new concept of information and a new understanding of learning and of teaching (for a discussion of this, see Chapter 15). But while the "information revolution" will have its most dramatic impact on education, teaching and learning may not use computers at all or may use them only marginally. The materials, while certainly quite different from what we have been usingas different as the printed book of 500 years ago was from the oral tradition of the earlier schoolsprobably do not need to be big machines with huge

memories. The amount of information needed throughout all the years of formal schooling is actually quite limited and hardly requires anything as complex as an electronic memory. "Programs" can be a great deal simpler than anything the computer uses. An ordinary desk calendar is, after all, also a "program," and a highly effective one. Information systems without computers, in other words, are perfectly possible and may indeed be as important as the systems built around the computer. Yet without the computer we would not have understood that information, like electricity, is a form of energy. Electricity is the cheapest, most plentiful, and most versatile energy for mechanical work. But information is energy for mind work. This is indeed the first era when energy for mind work has been available. Information through the ages has been all but completely lacking. At best it has been expensive, late, and quite unreliable. Most people in responsible positions today, whether in government, in hospitals, in research labs, or in business, spend most of their time scratching to get a little incorrect and unreliable information on what happened yesterday. The impact of cheap, reliable, fast, and universally available information will easily be as great as was the impact of electricity. Certainly young people, a few years hence, will use information systems as their normal tools, much as they now use the typewriter or the telephone. Yet the telephone eighty years ago evoked somewhat the same panic the computer now does. In another generation, it is safe to predict, people will have learned that the computer is their tool and not their master, and that it enables them to do the mind work they want to do and are unable to do today for want of cheap, reliable, and fast information. The information industry will create tremendous employment opportunities. The United States needs, for instance, around a million computer programmers between now and 1975as against the 150,000 to 200,000 we have had to date. The computer programmer is to the information industry what the worker on the assembly line was to the mass production industry of yesterday: the semiskilled but highly paid, highly productive worker. But at the same time, the information technology also creates a great many more highly skilled and demanding jobs, systems engineers, for instance, of whom we

might need up to half a million or so within the next ten years. Yet these are only beginnings. The Oceans Our shift from nomads, hunters, and gatherers to explorers and exploiters of the oceans may have equally great impact. And perhaps we are moving even faster here. Seven thousand years ago or so, not long after our ancestors had become settlers and exploiters on the land, two great technological feats were accomplished by the Egyptians of the Old Kingdom at almost the same time, perhaps even within the same generation: the first of the Great Pyramids and the invention of the plow. The pyramids had momentous impact on the imagination of the West, on its world view, its philosophy, its mathematics, and its science (even though the impact was on the Greek rather than the Egyptian imagination). But few contemporaries paid attention to the plow. Yet within a century or two it had multiplied farm yields twenty to fifty times, providing the food that made possible the first cities of man. I suspect that space exploration is our "pyramids" and the exploration of the oceans our "plow." Certainly the ocean is a virtually untapped reservoir of material resources, infinitely richer than the land. As yet we know almost nothing about the ocean. In fact, our remote ancestors of the early Bronze Age knew where the game was and where it was going much better than we know the location and movements of fish in the seas. We pick and gather whatever comes our way. This is now changing rapidlyin respect to the food resources of the ocean, especially its fish, where we are about to turn into fish farmers rather than fish hunters; in respect to the mineral resources in ocean water; and above all, in respect to the mineral resources on and under the bottom of the sea. There is little economic reason for settling on or under the seas. Unlike transportation on land, transportation on the sea is easy and cheap, so there is little reason for moving the sites of settlement to the oceanic resources. But we are about to tackle systematically the development of the oceans as the greatest economic resource to be found on this earth. With this will come new supplies of food and materials. With it will come new technologies, new major industries,

and of course entirely new major business enterprises (together with a host of new problems, such as those of law, in an area that historically has always been considered res nullius and outside the control of any territorial government). Materials We are similarly deep into another major technology, that of materials. Plastics, I have said before, can be considered the only major industry that is rooted in twentieth-century rather than in nineteenth-century science. Its foundation is X-ray diffractionone of the early fruits of the discovery of radiation. Plastics is the first of the new "materials" industries, the industries which create materials for specific purposes and with specific qualities, rather than exploit nature's substances as they occur. It is rarely realized how old our basic materials are. Glass, iron, steel and the nonferrous metals, ceramics, concrete, and timber all existed four or five thousand years ago, that is, before the beginning of the Greek era. Paper was invented by the Chinese around the time of the birth of Christ. Only rubber and aluminum are "modern," and now, the plastics. It is realized even less often how well the ancients wrought. The materials developed first in the Fertile Crescent at the dawn of civilization have not been changed or improved since. The city of Cologne in Germany is still being supplied with water through a concrete aqueduct laid down by the Romans two thousand years ago and never since repaired. No one has made better steel than the Damascene or Japanese swordsmiths of old. And Phoenician glass still holds secrets of color and texture we have not been able to penetrate. Small wonder, then, that for thousands of years, right down to our own day, it was axiomatic that a certain material could be made only from one resource, e.g., ore, and that it could only be used for certain purposes, on which, however, it had practically a monopoly. The material streams were determined both at the source and at their final application and ran, so to speak, in parallel without ever touching. As a result, no one had to know anything about any other ma-

terial than his own specialty. And in his specialty, the applications of his materials were, so to speak, protected, as if by natural, immutable law. Aluminum was the first challenger. But for a long time aluminum was seen as a "substitute," until it established itself as the preferred material in a number of areas during World War II. The plastics also began as "substitutes." Still they were soon seen as different. For one, they were not to be found in nature nor were they the result of refining a natural raw material. They were man-made. Moreover, since the work done during World War I in Germany, they were clearly seen as designed by man and as "materials," or "structures of matter"that is, as molecular arrangements that were open-ended, capable of being developed for a specific purpose and out of an understanding of the fundamental characteristics of matter. From their early days, therefore, the plastics contradicted the axiom that a material could be made from one source only and that, in turn, it had specific applications that ''belonged" to it. Yet the plastics, technologically, are only the beginning of the new materials technology, and a limited beginning at that. For the plastics are still based on the old idea of one discrete substance that serves as the "material." What is being realized more and more is our ability to design composite materials in which different structural elements serve different purposesjust as in building a house, timber may carry the load while brick provides the insulation. Increasingly being designed are "composites," combining, for instance, the great strength of pure crystals of metals with the elasticity of organic compounds. Structures are being designed that combine the electric conductivity of certain atomic configurations with the electrical resistance of others, e.g., the "impurities" with which a transistor crystal is purposefully "doped." The result of these composite designs is one new material that has specific and totally new properties. The starting point is not a substance but a specific microstructure of atoms and molecules and the physical, chemical, and electrical characteristics of such a structure under the laws of quantum mechanics. This has been carried furthest in space technology, if only because the need for specific performances is greatest there, while the penalties for excess weight or excess bulk are highest. Hence "materials" is

one area where one can expect a "fall-out" from space technology into the civilian peacetime economy. General Schriever, the former head of the Air Force's space and design work, has called the new space materials "the greatest single advance that has been made in the last three thousand years," and his enthusiasm seems only slightly exaggerated. One of the new materials developed for use in advanced airplane design is, for instance, twice as strong and two and a half times as stiff as aluminum yet weighs 25 per cent less and should, eventually, be considerably less expensive. It is a composite in which tiny fibers made from pure boron crystal are imbedded in a plastic resin. There are many similar materials, usually combining a metal in pure crystal form with some organic material such as a plastic (but also with inorganic materials such as silicones and glass), all of which are stronger than anything found in nature, or capable of greater resistance to heat or to chemicalsand yet lighter and cheaperthan traditional metals. More important than any one new material or any one new application is the new "materials" concept itself. It marks a shift from concern with substances to concern with structure, a shift from artisan to scientist as man's artificer, a shift from chemistry to physics as the basic discipline, and a shift, above all, from the concrete experience of the workshop to abstract mathematics, a shift from starting with what nature provides to what man wants to accomplish. Economically this may have the greatest impact on those materials that have all along been multipurposeabove all, modern steel. (Actually modern steel is metallurgically a form of iron rather than what has traditionally been meant by "steel"but this is irrelevant here.) Specific-purpose materialsconcrete is probably the most specificare unlikely soon to be seriously affected by the new materials technology. Within their range they have exceedingly high performance characteristics. Economically it would be difficult to substitute for them a new material, since its cost is unlikely to be compensated for by new performance capabilities (except in such new and demanding surroundings as space or the depths of the sea with demands as to weight, bulk, resistance to temperature, corrosion, and pressures which materials on earth never

were called upon to meet). Steel, on the other hand, has been the "universal" material of modern civilization rather than (as the steel of the swordsmith used to be) a special-purpose material fashioned for one specific application. It is of the nature of a "multipurpose material" that it is not the best possible material for any one use but a compromise in which cheapness makes up for lack of specific performance capability. But if we can raise specific performance capability of any one material way beyond what has been possible in the past, the "multipurpose" material has to be a great deal cheaper, in turn, to be competitive. The advent of the new materials technology, in which it is assumed that we can build at moderate cost a structure of matter ideally suited for any single purpose, may, therefore, put even more pressure on steel than its economically obsolete process has already done. Even if steel succeeds in developing an economically rational chemical flow process that will lower steel costs materially, it may still find itself under pressure in a vast variety of end uses and applications in which new, specially designed materials, while more expensive by weight, may be economical in performance. But all materials will from now on have to consider themselves as potentially competing with all others. All of them will from now on have to be considered as part of one and the same materials stream, with the end user capable of specifying performance rather than settling for this or that substance. Yet this will not alter the fact that nothing comes out of a petroleum-cracking tower but the distillates found in crude oil, and nothing out of a glass oven but glass. The end user who wants a container may be able to choose among a dozen materials, some existing ones such as paper, plastics, glass, tin cans, and so on, some as yet unknown ones, or some composites of known and unknown ones. The container manufacturer, however, will have to obtain substances out of specific processes rather than produce "packaging materials." The "materials revolution" will predictably make countries less and less dependent on natural resources, since the same end use can be satisfied by starting with almost any natural resource, organic or inorganic. It will make end users increasingly independent of specific substances. It will make possible an enormous number of new products, new satisfactions, and new markets. But it will greatly

disturb existing industry structures and challenge traditional industrial organization and existing economic alignments. One of the largest tin-can makers, the American Can Company, has in the last few years added a paper company, a glass company, and a very large plastics capacity, while the world's largest glass-bottle maker, Owens-Illinois in Toledo, Ohio, has gone into the plastics and paper business in a big way. We may also see the emergence of entirely new industries that start out with end uses and then become specialists in providing end materials which the builder, for instance, might want, or any material one might need, for another instance, in the storage and processing of food. As a result, we are almost certain to see great, rapid, and disturbing change in the industrial sector that for hundreds of years has been the most clearly defined and the most clearly delineated one, the "heavy" industries, such as mining and lumbering, or industries producing large quantities of specific materials, such as steel, brick, copper, glass, or paper. The Megalopolis Finally, man's new habitat, the megalopolis, * is likely to spawn a clutch of new technologies and of new major industries based on them. One reason for the misery and disorganization of the megalopolis is that it has outgrown what we still consider modern technologiesin transportation and in housing, in water supply and sewerage, and, above all, in conserving the fundamental necessities of life such as clean air, clean water, and the total natural environment. At the same time, there is little doubt that we will continue to live in metropolitan areas, that indeed more and more of mankind will make the megalopolis its home. Only worldwide nuclear catastrophe or a pestilence beyond any recorded in history could reverse this trend in the foreseeable future. A hundred years ago or more the industrial city arose. Though only * The term was coined by the French geographer Jean Gottesmann, and is fast gaining general acceptance.

the Germans coined a word for itthey called it Grosstadt it was distinct and different from the traditional city of Western man. Paris, London, New York, and Vienna were in 1800 still what the city had always been: the political, craft, and trading centers of a rural society and an agricultural economy. Fifty years later they were industrial cities, with the factory chimney rather than the town house of the nobility their distinctive feature, and with the factory worker the dominant resident. And just as the megalopolis of today is not organized and does not represent an integrated community, the Grosstadt of 1850 was disorganized and disintegrated. Rioting was endemic, and rebellion just below the surface, breaking out, for instance, in 1848 all over Europe and in the antidraft riots of the Civil War in New York City. Indeed, the more "organized" the early nineteenth-century Grosstadt looked, the less organized it really was. The least disturbed of the cities were those industrial wastelands, Liverpool, Birmingham, Essen, or the Franco-Belgian Borinage, where the new industrial concentration had not clustered around a pre-industrial city. If the Grosstadt never became beautiful, it did become organized. This required, however, a new perception of what a city isbest exemplified in Haussmann's great plan of the Grands Boulevards, which created modern Paris. Haussmann's perception of the Grosstadt is usually seen either in purely aesthetic terms or (by people with a little more insight than the traditional "Beaux Arts" architect) as an elegant geometric model of traffic flow. But, like all true visions, Haussmann's released tremendous human energies in all areas. The two cities that adopted it in fullVienna and his own Parisshould, by all odds, have been decaying cities in the second half of the nineteenth century, as capitals of defeated countries that were rapidly losing ground in the areas that counted most at the time, that is, in economics, science, and technology as well as military power. Instead, these two cities became almost immediately the intellectual and artistic centers of Europe, and the cities that to the contemporaries, right down to World War I, spelled creative energy, vitality, and the joy of living. Haussmann's vision also created a market for new technologies and for new industries to go with them. Indeed, the Grosstadt was the most important of the nineteenth-century growth markets. It pro-

vided the impetus for major inventions and the market for the development of the industries based on them: light, first manufactured gas and then electricity; electric transportation, whether subway, streetcar, or elevated street railway; the telephone; steel-frame construction for the new tall buildings, the first major breakthrough in construction materials since the Romans; the department store; the newspaper; and many more. The megalopolis of today is as different from the Grosstadt as the Grosstadt was from the city of 1800. The difference is not only in size and population. A megalopolis is the dominant habitat, whereas in the age of the Grosstadt, the majority of men still lived in a rural society and produced in an agricultural economy. Whereas the Grosstadt was founded on the industrial worker, the megalopolis is founded on, and organized around, the knowledge worker, with information as its foremost output as well as its foremost need. The college campus rather than the factory chimney is likely to be the distinctive feature of megalopolis, the college student rather than the "proletarian" its central political fact. To organize megalopolis we need a new perception. We urgently need a new Haussmann. The lack of such a perception makes all efforts at "city planning" futile, just as they were futile in the early nineteenth century. Until Haussmann accepted the reality of the Grosstadt and thought it through, every "city planner" * of the time tried to make undone the new industrial city. Similarly, all our city planners of today are trying to make undone the megalopolis. But every attempt so far to return to yesterday's Grosstadt the "Green Belt" around London, to give an outstanding examplehas failed. We also need truly new technologies for megalopolis. It is, for instance, not enough to say that we need mass transportation. We need something we do not have today: transportation that can handle large numbers of people in comparatively little space but which combines, with the volume and space capacities of the railroad, the flexibility of the automobile. For unlike the traditional city and even unlike the Grosstadt, megalopolis does not have one center or even a very small number of * The term, of course, did not exist then.

centers. In Haussmann's model the shortest distance from any point in his city to any other point required crossing only one nodal center (such as the Place de la Concorde). Yet all these nodes were on one axis. All the centers, in other words, were in one small "core city." In today's metropolis, there is no one "core city." It does not, therefore, solve the transportation problem of the metropolis to make it possible for everyone to have easy access to such a "core city"the assumption, however, on which nineteenth-century transportation systems, and especially the streetcar and subway systems, were built. This explains why, despite all attempts to get people out of automobiles and back again onto trains, streetcars, and subways, the citizen stubbornly clings to the automobile. It alone has the flexibility for going from any point to any other point, so to speak, at random. And only a mass transportation system that provides for these random movements, and yet gives true access, will be acceptable and will solve the crisis that threatens to paralyze megalopolis. Another example of the innovations that are needed is the "vertical street" inside the new "neighborhoods" of the metropolis, the high-rise apartment buildings. A populated and frequented street is the axis of community life and the key to a safe neighborhood. Neighborhoods are not "unsafe" because they are overrun by hoodlums. They are overrun by hoodlums because the streets are empty. In few cities of the world are there more rough elements than in Rome. Yet it is quite safe to walk almost anywhere in Rome at practically any hour of the day and night; there are always people on the street. The apartment building of the megalopolis contains more people than the traditional neighborhood did. Yet the elevatorthat marvelous contrivance of the nineteenth-century Grosstadt is designed to isolate people in the same building from one another. It is designed to take a passenger from his own apartment door to the street outside without bringing him into contact with the rest of the people in the building. As a result, the large apartment blocks are not neighborhoods, cannot become communities, and above all, are less and less safe. Yet the "street" of the metropolis can only be inside these large structures, simply because this is where people live. To design the vertical street is therefore a major challenge. We may have the technical means for it already available, in the escalator,

for instance. But to build on this and create inside the tall buildings the community centers, the shopping centers, the "outdoors" where people meet, spend time, relax, promenade, and mix, will take a tremendous amount of technical innovation and aesthetic ingenuity. Mass transportation in the megalopolis and the vertical street are not particularly imaginative ideas, though they may well require highly imaginative solutions. They still assume, by and large, that the megalopolis is an extension of the Grosstadt. But the meaningful technologies of megalopolis may grow out of entirely different assumptions. It is conceivable, for instance, that instead of making it easy for people to move, the traffic problems of megalopolis will be solved by making it less necessary for people to travel. Instead, information and ideas will travel to people. This would require industries as new and different from anything we have today as the subway, the telephone, and the electric light were from the urban technologies and industries of the eighteenth century. These are some of the new industries one can already clearly see, the industries that are already onstage though not yet under the spotlight. Any such forecast runs a greater risk than that of being wrong, that is, of predicting things that will not happen; it runs the risk of being irrelevant, that is, of not predicting the important things that are going to happen. Everything the forecaster predicts may come to pass. Yet he may not have seen the most meaningful of the emergent realities or, worse still, not have paid attention to them. There is no way to avoid this irrelevancy in forecasting, for the important and the distinctive are always the result of changes in values, perception, and goals, that is, in the things one can divine but not forecast. The new industries I have tried to sketch may, therefore, not be the main characters. But they are "in character" for tomorrow's economic drama. They show that the new, the really new, is already here and not merely in prospect. They show that the new is big enough and dynamic enough to supply forward thrust to the economies of the developed countries for many decades to come. The main point

they make, however, is that the emerging technologies are different intellectually, socially, and economically. The new industries are not additions. They are innovations. The New Knowledge Base All of the new industries are based on twentieth-century knowledge. Their foundations are the physics of this century, the physics of radiation and quantum; the new science of matter and of structure; the physical chemistry of molecular and atomic bonds, and so on. But equally important to the new industries are knowledge areas outside of what traditionally is called "science." The computer is, above all, founded on symbolic logic. It could not have come into being but for Russell and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica (1910). It is no accident that the development of the computer received its greatest impetus from a theoretical mathematician, the late John von Neumann, rather than from electrical or electronic engineers or even from the physicists. Underlying every one of these new industries is a new perception: the perception of "systems," which is as crucial to the information industry as it is to the oceanic industry, as fundamental to our concept of "materials" as it will be to the industries for the new metropolis. This is the translation into technology of the "configuration" perception which entered the modern world in the years before World War Iin the "ecology" of the biologist and the "personality'' of the psychologist, in the "gestalt" of the German students of sense perception and the "culture" of the anthropologist. * The new technologies are not "applied science." Neither the modern mathematics of symbolic logic nor the perception of configuration is what is normally called "science." Yet both are central to the new technologies and, as a result, to the new industries. This is something new, something that sets the new industries sharply apart from those of the first half of this century. The technology of the twentieth century embraces and feeds off the entire array of human knowledges, the physical sciences as well as the humanities. Indeed in * For a full discussion, see Chapter One, "The New World View," in my Landmarks of Tomorrow (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1959).

these new technologies there is no distinction between the two. In these new technologies the split between the universe of matter and the universe of the mindthe split introduced into Western thought by Descartes 300 years agois being overcome. This has implications way beyond the economic or even the technological sphere. It explains, for instance, why we are concerned today about the split between the "two cultures," to use C. P. Snow's popular phrase, that is, between the world of the scientifically trained and the world of the humanistically trained man. We cannot tolerate such a split any more. We will have to demand of the scientifically trained man that he again become a humanist; otherwise he will lack the knowledge and perception needed to make his science effective, indeed to make it truly scientific. And we will have to demand of the humanist that he acquire an understanding of science, or else his humanities will be irrelevant and ineffectual. We will, above all, have to demand of the people concerned with the economy, whether as politicians, as businessmen, or as researchers, that they understand both cultures and move with equal ease in both. The fact that the new technologies are not based on science alone but on new knowledge in its entirety also means that technology is no longer separate and outside of culture, but an integral part thereof. Civilization has, of course, always been shaped by technology. The notion that technology has become important only during these last 200 years or so is arrant nonsense. Tools and the organization of workthe two elements of what we call technologyhave always molded both what man does and what he can do. They have, very largely, determined what he wants to be. Still, for several thousand yearsin the West ever since the Greeks made slavery into an economic institution and into the foundation of productionwork, and with it its tools, methods, and organization, have been considered outside the culture and unworthy of the attention of a cultured person. If our new technology stands, as it clearly does, in the very center of present-day culture, this legacy of the contempt of the Greek intellectual for the slaves whose toil made possible his life of luxury and leisure has been finally liquidated. And this, in turn, is certain to alter both culture and technology. Equally important and equally new is the fact that every one of the

new emerging industries is squarely based on knowledge. Not a single one is based on experience. Every single technology and with it every industry before 1850 was based on experience. Knowledge, that is, systematic, purposeful, organized information, had almost nothing to do with any of them. Even the so-called "modern" industries, which came into being in the second half of the nineteenth century and which still dominate our economic and industrial life today, were largely experience-based rather than knowledge-based. Science had almost no part to play in the birth of automobile or airplane, not even the auxiliary role of godmother, let alone that of midwife. These technologies were still experience-based. And so was the electrical industry in large part; Edison, for instance, was much more traditional craftsman than modern researcher. Only in the chemical industry were there inventors with university training in their science. Otherwise, in the "heroic age of inventions," that is, in the sixty or seventy years before World War I, university-trained inventors were conspicuous by their almost total absence. * The new emerging industries, therefore, embody a new economic reality: knowledge has become the central economic resource. The systematic acquisition of knowledge, that is, organized formal education, has replaced experienceacquired traditionally through apprenticeshipas the foundation for productive capacity and performance. Finally, these new industries differ from the traditional "modern" industry in that they will employ predominantly knowledge workers rather than manual workers. Computer programming, for example, with its enormous employment opportunities, is semiskilled work. All that is needed to be a programmer is junior high school arithmetic, three months of training, and six months of practice. But while the skill is not a very elevated one, it is based on knowledge rather than on experience or manual training. The same goes for the other employment opportunities the new industries are likely to create. In number of jobs, they may be very large. Some of them will certainly * On this see my chapters "Technological Trends in the Twentieth Century" and "Technology and Society in the Twentieth Century" in Volume Two of Technology and Western Civilization, edited by Kranzberg and Pursell (New York, London, and Toronto: Oxford University Press, 1967).

be highly skilledas for instance, a good many of the jobs developed for the exploitation of the oceans. But in every case, the foundation of the job, whether skilled or unskilled, will be knowledge. The preparation for it will be a course of study rather than apprenticeship. The productivity of the worker will depend on his ability to put to work concepts, ideas, theoriesthat is, things learned in schoolrather than skills acquired through experience. It is easy to overrate the impact of new industries with their new technologies. The steamship, after all, only began to replace sail on the oceans after 1860, that is, when the new technologies of electricity and the internal combustion engine were beginning to replace the coal-burning steam engine as the "modern" prime mover. But the new industries ahead represent a qualitative rather than a merely quantitative shift. They are different in their structure, in their knowledge foundations, and in their sociology. They represent, therefore, not just a stepping up of the rate of change. They represent a discontinuity fully as great as that of the industries that came into being between the 1860's and 1914. They will not, therefore, be amenable to policies, whether those of business or of government, that are in effect more of the same. They demand basic changes from both businessman and politician. They require both new policies and the sloughing off of deeply entrenched practices of our industrial society today.

3 The New Entrepreneur The fifty years before the outbreak of World War I have been called the "Heroic Age of Invention." They might equally be called the "Heroic Age of the Entrepreneur." The inventors of this period had to know how to convert their technical work into economic performance, and their invention into a business. * It was then that the big businesses of today were founded. Even then the ability to managethat is, to organize people for ongoing workwas important. Without it the greatest inventor lost his business, no matter how keenly he may have wanted to be a tycoon. This, for instance, was the fate of Edison despite his burning ambition to be the owner and head of a big company. But needed above all was entrepreneurshipthat is, the ability to create the new and different. In the fifty years since World War I, the premium has been on management. Not that entrepreneurship has been lacking, or that the opportunities for it have been limited. On the contrary. In the twenty years since the end of World War II, more new businesses have been founded in every developed country than in any similar period beforeboth absolutely and in relation to the number of businesses in the economy. More of these new businesses have grown to respectable size, some into worldwide giants, such as IBM, Xerox, * The Germans had a word for it. They called this period the "Gruenderjahre" the years of the founders.

and some of the pharmaceutical companies. Yet the great need has been for the productive organization of large numbers of people to do what could already be planned, projected, and laid out, that is, for doing something that was already reasonably well known. Now we are entering again an era in which emphasis will be on entrepreneurship. However, it will not be the entrepreneurship of a century ago, that is, the ability of a single man to organize a business he himself could run, control, embrace. It will rather be the ability to create and direct an organization for the new. We need men who can build a new structure of entrepreneurship on the managerial foundations laid these last fifty years. History, it has often been observed, moves in a spiral; one returns to the preceding position, or to the preceding problem, but on a higher level, and by a corkscrew-like path. In this fashion we are going to return to entrepreneurship on a path that led out from a lower level, that of the single entrepreneur, to the manager, and now back, though upward, to entrepreneurship again. The businessman will have to acquire a number of new abilities, all of them entrepreneurial in nature, but all of them to be exercised in and through a managerial, and usually a fairly large and complex, organization. The Dynamics of Technology First of all the businessman will have to learn to understand the dynamics of technology and to anticipate the direction and speed of technological change. As long as new technology originated with the lone inventor operating outside the existing economy, there was no need for such understanding. If, however, a going, developed economy is to be capable of rapid innovation and change, its businessmen must be able to anticipate technology and to take advantage of the opportunities that technological developments offer. "Prediction" of technological changein the strict meaning of the termwould require ability to know both what changes could be expected and when they would occur. I doubt that we can ever know in advance the timing of major technological changes. But we can know with high probability what technological changes are likely; which of those are likely to have major economic impact, that is, to

bring about new industries; and whether such changes are indeed approaching or imminent. The dynamics of technology are not particularly mysterious. The first dynamic element in technology, and the one most easily identified, is economic needs and opportunities. Necessity is not the mother of invention; it is, however, its midwife. The first indicator of the need for major innovation is one with which economists have been familiar for well over a century: declining productivity of capital in a major industry. Wherever a major industry requires increasing investment to produce the same quantity, especially if the higher capital requirements are not more than offset by savings in labor, the industry is in a sharp decline. No matter how prosperous and profitable it may look at the moment, it is rushing toward senility unless it can reverse the trend. New technology is not produced on command. One cannot simply expect technological results because one puts men and money to work. But at the same time, new technology can only result from human effort. A major industry will rarely put its best brains to work on basic changes. It will rather tend to fritter away its energies on desperate efforts to keep yesterday going a little longer. But in such a situation imaginative and knowledgeable people outside the industry often see the opportunity and go to work. Should they produce results, they are likely to have major impact fast. One example of such an economic opportunity for major new technology has already been mentioned: the steel process. Twenty years ago, before anyone had even heard of the new oxygen process developed by an obscure Austrian steel mill during World War II, some people, especially economists outside the steel industry, already saw clearly the need for major technological change that would convert steelmaking into a chemical flow process. In fact, they saw this much more clearly than anyone within the industry. (The outsider sees such a basic economic vulnerability almost always much more clearly than the insider, who tends to become a prisoner of the familiar.) Without being able to be specific as to the "how" of the new process, one could say twenty years ago, "If anything happens to convert steelmaking into a temperature-conserving

flow processor even to bring steelmaking a little closer to such a processit will create a new steel technology fairly fast." Similarly one could, even before World War II, anticipate major technological changes in shipbuilding on the basis of a rapid decline of the productivity of capital in ocean shipping. Again this indicated a fundamental vulnerability in the processthe economic waste of a system of loading and unloading in port which had remained virtually unchanged since the Phoenicians. Perhaps no one in the late 1930's or early 1940's could have predicted the container-ship or the floating military base which the U.S. Defense Department wants to build under the name of "Fast Deployment Logistics Ship" (and which would, in effect, eliminate the port with its installations altogether). Yet it was possible to say thirty years ago that any process that leads to merchandise freight being handled at the dockside, the way we already handle petroleum or iron ore or grain, should have an immediate major economic impact. It would create a new technology rapidly. One can say the same about the paper industryagain because a steady decline in the productivity of capital indicates that new technology, if developed where the process is economically vulnerable, would have immediate and major impact. Similar analysis brings out the opportunities created by gaps in a technology. A good example is the kind of thinking that has made the Swedes leaders in power transmission. The Swedes apparently saw twenty years ago that atomic energy would become competitive, and indeed would be the most economical form of power generation, provided very large generating stations were built. They also saw, however, that this meant that the ability to transmit high voltages without loss would become crucialrather than the ability to generate them. Once this had been seen, it took comparatively little work and little money to develop the needed new technology; all the knowledge necessary for it actually had been produced seventy years before. Such analysis of the dynamics of technology has made Sweden, a small country, with limited resources of men and money, the undisputed leader in today's high-power technology, even though other countries with much bigger resources, the United States, Russia,

Great Britain, France, Germany, and Japan, all spent much larger sums on high-voltage researchbut spent them in the wrong place. The second place to look in order to anticipate technology is knowledge of all kinds. One asks: "What is going on in knowledge areas and what technological opportunities might this create?" It is fashionable today to assert that knowledge is being converted into technology much faster than in the past. The evidence, however, fails to support this assertion. On the contrary, the lead time for the conversion of knowledge into technology seems to have lengthened. There is nothing today that is comparable to the speed with which, for instance, Heinrich Hertz's scientific discoveries in wave physics were translated into Marconi's new wireless telegraphy in less than two decades. The lead time between new knowledge and new technology today is much more likely to be thirty to forty years. In addition, the time it takes to develop new technology into marketable products and processes seems to have lengthened, too. What has shortened, and appreciably, is the time lag between the introduction of a new product or process into the market and its general adoption. Fifty or seventy-five years ago there was a good deal of time to adapt to the appearance of a new product or a new process. It took five or even ten years for it to cross national boundaries, let alone the Atlantic Ocean (though this did not apply to major new innovations such as the electric light bulb, the telephone, or the streetcar, all of which spread across the whole world with a speed since unmatched). Today the period of diffusion is a few weeks or a few months. One can therefore anticipate technology by systematically looking for new knowledgeand by being alert to the first sign that it is being transformed into technology. However, the new no longer derives purely from "science," as the earlier analysis of the new industries should have made clear. It comes from all areas in which there is systematic work on knowledge, whether "sciences" in the traditional sense or not. It has always been the rule that the major new changes in one area are more likely to originate in a field or discipline outside that area than from within.

The modern psychologist's configuration concepts, such as "personality" or "Gestalt," originated in the "field theory" of nineteenth-century physics. In turn, the modern electronics engineer got his idea of "systems engineering" from the psychologists (with an assist by the biologists). The great contemporary advances in genetics grew in part out of physical chemistry, with its discovery of the primacy of spatial relationships, and in part out of electronic engineering which discovered ''information theory" as a general property of electronic circuits. All through history, human knowledge, no matter how much the "experts" might departmentalize it, has been like fluid in a set of communicating vessels: an advance in one of them will result in a higher level in other areas. To understand the dynamics of technology, therefore, one always starts out with areas of knowledge other than one's own. Not only is one likely to be blinded in one's own field, where one knows, as a rule, far too much, and especially all the things that cannot be donemost of them untested, of course. It is also more probable that a truly major advance is more likely to result from a development in another field than from within one's own field. Finally, new major technological opportunities are prefigured in new intellectual attitudes, and even in intellectual slogans. Industry began to talk, for instance, of "materials" a good ten or twenty years before it could actually design and make them. Vision, as a rule, comes before action, and understanding comes even later. Thomas Watson, Sr., the man who founded and built IBM, did not live to see the triumph of the computer. But he began to talk forty years earlier about "data processing," even though no one at that time would have been able to say what the term meant. Everybody today talks of the "megalopolis," the "super-city," though no one can define it yet. Not only do such slogans indicate new need; they indicate new insight. And a great deal of new technology is not new knowledge; it is new perception. It is putting together things that no one had thought of putting together before, things that by themselves had been around a long time.

It is often said, and with considerable justice, that Henry Ford innovated nothing. Indeed there is no machine, no tool, no new product, no process that bears his name, was invented by him, or could have been patented by him. Everything he used was known. There were plenty of automobiles on the market before he brought out his first one. And yet Henry Ford was a true innovator. What he contributed were mass production, the mass market, the profitability of the very cheap, and so on. Perceptions have greater impact, as a rule, economically, socially, and culturally, than have many "new" things or even "new" ideas. Analyzing technology and its dynamics is not a "scientific" process, but it is not "intuition" either. It is true analysis. It is not in itself "technology." Indeed it is, as a rule, not done well by the technologist himself. It is done best by someone who thinks as an entrepreneur and who asks: ''Where are the opportunities for a new industry, or at least for a new major process?" "What new technical developments are likely to be of major economic impact because they fit a major need of an existing industry or an existing market?" "What major new knowledge has come into being that has not yet had an economic impact, has not yet resulted in new industries, new processes, new economic capabilities, or new productivity?" "What new insights are there, what new perceptions that are likely to make effective new technologyand what kinds of new technology?" It is not possible from such an analysis to deduce that such-and-such a development, looking this or that way, will come in a given year and lead to sales of x million dollars within five years. But something much more important can be said; namely, that any development of a certain kind, if and when it appears or is made to appear, will have major impact, will indeed have the potential for becoming a new industry rather than just a new product, a new technology rather than just a new tool or a new method. In an age of rapid change, a technological strategy is essential for the success and indeed for the survival of a business and perhaps even of an industrial nation. It is necessary to have thought through in advance where to put one's own technological efforts. Should they focus on modification and improvement, as do practically all the efforts now known in industry under the name of "research and

development"? Should they aim at producing new technology? Or perhaps even new knowledge? Or should they, as the Swedes did in respect to power transmission, be used to exploit a gap between technological and economic potential? Such strategy would also think through whether a given business should aim to develop fundamental technology for its own use, or whether it should develop technology to license to others. And at what stage should the company, in turn, import technology, and what should it look for and stand ready to pick up whenever it appears on the horizon? No one in an age of rapid change can possibly hope to produce all the technology that is needed, not even in one's own area. Not even the biggest companyand not even the most powerful countrycan any longer do what the research establishments, founded between 1890 and 1930, were meant to do: produce all the new technology and innovation (or even all the new knowledge) in a given field. This idea of technological self-sufficiency underlay the creation of the first research laboratory in the German chemical industry almost a century ago. It still underlay a generation later the creation of the great government-sponsored scientific research organization of Germany, the Kaiser Wilhelm Institutes (now Max Planck Institutes). It underlay the foundation of the first great research laboratories in the United States, that of the General Electric Company in Schenectady around 1900, and ten years or so later, the foundation of the Bell Laboratories of the Telephone Company. Today, however, everyone, even the most powerful research institutes with all the resources of a government behind them, will have to accept that no one can possibly be self-supporting in technology. Everyone will have to learn what to concentrate on, but also what to bring in from others, and at what stage. The most rapidly growing area in international trade is probably no longer the trade in goods, but the trade in technology, in patents and licenses. Everybody will have to learn to develop a strategy for it. What are we going to do ourselves? What are we going to sell to others? And what are we going to buy, and at what stage?

An early example of successful technological strategy is Japan. It was obvious to the founders of modern Japan that the country could not attempt to lead in technological innovation; all its energies had to go into social and cultural innovations. And although one could import neither society nor culture, one could import technology. The Japanese, as a result, have learned how one looks for the emergence of new technology; how one acquires new technology from abroad at the right stage; and how one develops the foreign-born idea into a successful, marketable product fast. But even the Japanese know so far only how to buy technology and have had little occasion to learn how one sells it, or how one concentrates one's own resources so as to obtain the greatest possible yield in new knowledge, new technology, and economic results from one's own efforts. In the West, only the Swedes so far have given thought to such technological strategy. High-voltage transmission is just one example of the Swedish achievement in thinking through where the technological gaps were and how they could be exploited. The Swedish automobile industry, with its emphasis on a car that combines passenger-car styling with the ruggedness needed for poor roads, is another. And so is the Swedish aircraft industrythe only viable aircraft industry in a small countryconcentrating on planes capable of landing and taking off on very short runways, that is, again under the conditions that are typical in countries other than the very big or the very rich. Yet Swedish technological strategy has not been formulated by technologists. It seems to have come mostly from the industrial development bankers who head the country's three large banks. Not one of them is a scientist or an engineer; all of them, however, apparently understand the need for a technological strategy that is appropriate to a small country where available resources have to be concentrated on filling gaps in a few areas rather than on providing the main advance. When World War II ended, Sweden was still largely a mining and lumbering economy. Now she has become, in terms of per capita output, Europe's leading industrial economy and has attained a standard of living second only to that of the United States.

The Dynamics of the Market The businessman will increasingly have to understand the dynamics of the market. The market is the most potent source of ideas for innovation. A study done by the U.S. Department of Commerce during the last few years showed, for instance, that even among patented products and processesthat is, among products and processes with a high technology contentthe majority had their origin in the needs of the market rather than in technology alone. Understanding the dynamics of the market is necessary to prevent loss of the fruits of technological achievements. Technologically, no country has done a better job these last twenty-five years than Great Britain. Antibiotics, radar, and the jet engine, to name only three, are all British in origin. The computer, too, owes a great deal to British technology, and so does the atomic reactor. Yet in none of these have the British reaped where they sowed and cultivated. And although there is no single explanation for this, the failure to understand the market and to be concerned with its dynamics is clearly a central reason. The importance of marketing for technology has been documented in a study of the "technology gap" said to exist between the United States and Europe. * This study showed that of those inventions that could be attributed almost entirely to work in one country in the postwar period, 19 were made in the United States and 10 in Western Europe (Britain, France and Germany). But the United States led in 22 of the major innovations flowing from these 29 inventions, whereas all European countries together are leading in only 7 of them. The difference is entirely a result of marketing, ** that is, of the ability to translate the technically new into the economically productive. But the role of marketing in making technology economically effective was proven much earlier. * J. Ben David, Fundamental Research and Government Policy (Paris: Committee for Science Policy, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development [OECD], 1966). ** The fundamental work in this area is the book by the American economist J. Schmookler, Invention and Economic Growth (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1966).

The best technical work on the electric light bulb was done not by Edison but by his British competitor, Sir Joseph Swan. And yet it was Edison's bulb that won out in the marketplace for the simple reason that, unlike Swan, Edison looked at the market. He put himself into the position of the electric power companies and asked: "What do they need and what can they use?" And he put himself in the position of the homeowner and asked the same questions. Technically, Swan's solution may have been much more elegant, but it just did not fit the expectations, the behavior, the values of the two markets that had to accept the new product if it was to be economically possible, let alone successful. Most businessmen, when they speak of "marketing," mean nothing more sophisticated than the systematic and purposeful organization of all the work that has to be done to sell a product, to deliver it to the customer, and to get paid for it. What is needed to be an entrepreneur in an era of rapid technological change is "marketing" in two other senses. First, we need "marketing" that looks upon the entire business from the point of view of its ultimate purpose and justification, that is, from the point of view of the customer (or rather the "customers," since every business and every product has at least two, and usually many more, quite different kinds of customers to satisfy). This means, above all, that one does not try to look at the customer for "our product." As long as one thinks of ''our product," one is still thinking in terms of selling rather than in terms of marketing. What matters is the customer's behavior, his values, and his expectations. And under this aspect, one's own business, let alone one's own product, hardly exists at all. In a true marketing point of view no product and no company is assumed to have the slightest importance to the customer or indeed to be even noticed by him. It is axiomatic that the customer is only interested in the satisfaction he seeks and in his needs and expectations. The customer's question is always, "What will this product or this business do for me tomorrow?" Second, businessmen will have to learn to practice "marketing" as an innovating force in itself. They have to learn that the truly new does not, as a rule, satisfy demands that already exist. It creates new expectations, sets new standards, makes possible new satisfactions.

"Innovative marketing" therefore creates markets. New technology always needs new markets which were not even conceivable until the new technology created new demands. The chemical industry has known this all along. Before the chemical industry acquired a substantial number of the carpet mills in the United States, the carpet industry was in a decline. It advertised its products; it sold "hard." But its share in the total consumer expenditures on housing and home furnishings steadily diminished. Then, in the early 1950's the chemical industry came into the carpet businesslargely to save an important customer for their synthetic fibers. It immediately began innovative marketing. It first asked: "What is the biggest unfulfilled expectation of the typical home buyer?" The answerand like all right answers, it sounds obvious once it has been givenwas: bring the level of the home that typical young families buy a little closer to their aspirations and tastes, that is, bridge the gap between the house they read about in the home magazines and the house they can afford. This immediately showed a new role for carpeting. Floor covering is one of the few ways in which the basic taste and comfort level of a home can be raised with comparatively little outlay. The next question was then: "What can the young people afford?" And the answerequally obviouswas that they can afford a few pennies more in monthly carrying charges but cannot afford to pay a larger lump sum when they buy the home and are inundated already by demands on their slender resources. The moment this answer had been given, it became clear that the one kind of floor covering that could be bought by the young couple was the most expensive kind, namely, wall-to-wall carpeting. For that, being fixed to the structure, can be included in the homeowner's mortgage. The final question was: "Who decides what is being bought?" In other words: "Who is really the customer?" The answer to this was the mass builder rather than the young couple itself. If, in other words, floor covering is offered in such a way that it is attractive to the mass builder because it enables him to save on flooringwhich means wall-to-wall carpeting; because it makes it easier for him to sell a house by making it look better; and because it enables him to sell the carpeted home without any increase in the down payment and with only a slight increase in the monthly carrying chargethen floor covering becomes immediately a major satisfaction of the homeowner. As a result of such innovative

marketing, the declining, if not dying, carpet industry in the United States has again become healthy, growing, and profitable. Meanwhile electric lighting fixturesan even better way to upgrade the taste and comfort level of a homehave continued to be a declining industry. All that industry is trying to do is to design "better" products and to "sell hard." There is a common belief abroad that it is new technology that creates sales and with them jobs and industries. But new technology is only a potential. It is marketing, and especially innovative marketing, that converts the potential into actuality. Only under acute shortage conditions do goods sell themselves. A cancer drug does not require much marketing; here we have an acute shortage in which not even "selling" would be needed if we only had the right knowledge and an effective product. But even a cancer drug would have to be in a form in which the medical profession could effectively use it. Wherever conditions do not resemble the extreme scarcity that prevails in cancer therapy, new technology needs, above all, effective marketing. It needs an understanding of the market and its dynamics. Indeed this is necessary to direct the technological efforts, as the examples above of the successful new products of Swedish technology show. It takes innovative marketing to create the new perception for the customer so that he can use the new to expand his horizon, to raise his expectations and aspirations, and to derive new satisfactions. Economic advance is not greater satisfaction of old needs and wants. It is new choice. It is the widening of the horizon of expectations and aspirations. This is largely a function of marketing which, therefore, is needed to make technological change economically productive, that is, result in the satisfaction of human needs and wants. The Innovative Organization Businessmen will have to learn to build and manage an innovative organization. They will have to learn to build and manage a human group that is capable of anticipating the new, capable of converting its vision into technology, products and process, and willing and able to accept the new.

During the last half-century, we have learned, by and large, how to organize human energies for joint performance. We have learned, by and large, how to use organization to do efficiently what we already know how to do. This is a tremendous step forward, and one on which our present society rests. We now need to make possible organization that can innovate. There are large innovative organizations around. A good example are the Bell Laboratories of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which for almost fifty years have been a productive source of new technology in a wide variety of areas. Yet they are an integral part of a big, highly structured managerial organization which is, of necessity, primarily focused on doing efficiently what it already knows how to do. Bell Laboratories are an exception so far. Now such accomplishment will have to become common. We need the ability to innovate. We need to build this into an economy in which we have, as the nineteenth century did not have, large, permanent managerial organizations. This will require major organization changes. In the first place, as the success of Bell Laboratories makes clear, innovative organizations must be kept distinct from managerial organizations, which are responsible for exploiting what is already in existence. Such managerial organizations can modify, can extend, can improve, but they cannot truly innovate. More and more companies, have, for instance, learned that it is futile to expect the truly new to come out of the existing product divisions within the company. The new needs a separate "development" division which is responsible for it until it is no longer "new" but an established, going, successful business. This is also the lesson taught by the chemical company that has been most successful as an innovator, the du Pont Company in Wilmington, Delaware. Forty years ago it set up a separate "development department." But perhaps even more important is that an innovative organization requires a different structure of the relationship between people. It requires a team organization rather than a command organization.

And it requires flexibility in relationships. Yet there has to be discipline, there has to be authority, and there has to be someone who can make decisions. Team structure is largely unknown to classical organization theorythough a jazz combo or, for that matter, a surgical team in the operating theater exemplifies it. The innovative organization needs a new attitude on the part of the people on the top. In the managerial organization, the top people sit in judgment; in the innovative organization, it is their job to encourage ideas, no matter how unripe or crude. It is the job of the top people in the innovative organization to try to convert the largest possible number of ideas into serious proposals for effective, purposeful work. It is their job to say: "What would this idea have to be for it to be taken seriously?" It is not their job, as it is in the managerial organization, to say: "This is not a serious proposal." No idea for the really new ever starts out as a realistic, serious, thought-through, worked-out proposal. It always starts out as a groping, a divining, a search. To be sure, nine out of ten of these "bright ideas" turn out to be nothing but epigrams. Of the small proportion left, the great majority also never gets anywhere. The mortality of "bright ideas" is as great as the mortality of frogs' eggs; ideas are a part of nature, and nature is prodigal. But then there is never a shortage of ideas, just as there is no shortage of frogs' eggs in the pond. One has to have a thousand to hatch one viable end result. One does not know in advance which one of the thousand will survive and grow to maturity. The innovative attitude requires willingness on the part of the people at the top to listen, to encourage, and to go to work themselves at converting crude guesses into understanding, the first glimpse into vision, and excitement into results. This is not, as so many people believe, "creativity." Nor is it "disorganized." It is a highly organized, disciplined, and systematic process. But it requires a different approach and different procedures from those of the well-managed organization. "Professional" management today sees itself often in the role of a judge who says "yes" or "no" to ideas as they come up. This leads, inevitably, to the situation described in the famous jingle which, legend has it, was found one day pinned to the organization chart on the bulletin board of the Unilever Company in London:

Across this Tree From Root to Crown Ideas flow up And Vetoes down. A top management that believes its job is to sit in judgment will inevitably veto the new idea. It is always "impractical." Only a top management that sees its central function as trying to convert into purposeful action the half-baked idea for something new will actually make its organizationwhether company, university, laboratory, or hospitalcapable of genuine innovation and self-renewal. One risk an innovative organization cannot afford is the risk of aiming too low. It takes as much ingenuity and work to do what we already do a little better, as it takes to do something entirely different. It takes as much work and effort to create one addition to the product line as it does to create a new business. In genuine innovation one cannot afford to come out with just another product. The work needed for it is too great for the possible resultsand the risk is exactly the same as that of aiming for a new business or perhaps even for a new industry. What distinguishes the truly productive scientist from the merely competent one is rarely knowledge or effort, let alone talent. The men who are truly productiveleaving out the few towering geniuses such as the Newtons or the Faradaysare men who focus their knowledge, their intelligence, and their efforts on a big, a truly worthwhile goal, men who set out to create something new. I have been reading for years the acceptance speeches of Nobel prize winners. Again and again one hears them say, "What started me on the work that led to this achievement was a chance remark by a teacher who said: 'Why don't you try something where the results would really make a difference?' " The first question to ask in an innovative organization is: "Is this big enough so that we will have at least a new business, if not a new industry or a new technology if we succeed? If not, we cannot afford the risks." This is a very different question from the ones asked in the managerial organization when it does "long-range planning" or allocates resources. There one tries to minimize the possible loss. In innovation one has to maximize the possible results.

4 The New Economic Policies An era of innovation and technological change makes great demands on government policies. The demands may be even more difficult to satisfy than those on the entrepreneur. In a period of rapid change in which new industries emerge as the new dynamic forces, government policy must, above all, not prevent or inhibit the mobility of productive resources. Men and capital, the two mobile resources of any economy, must be able to move into the most productive allocation and out of employment in yesterday's work. Such mobility is essential for the welfare of the individual. Less-productive employments pay less, of necessity. To impede movement into more productive ones therefore imposes a lower income on the individual who is supposedly "protected." In fact, it threatens the individual with loss of job, or at the least, with insecurity, fear, and worry. The more productive the employment, the more enjoyable it also is as a rule, and the more satisfaction does it offer to the individual. This is particularly true today where the employment of greatest productivity in the developed countries increasingly is not manual work but knowledge work, which offers the individual greater opportunity to make his living by doing what he enjoys and what he feels pride in. Capital too must be able to move toward the productive invest-

ments. The more advanced an economy, the more important is optimum utilization of capital. For "advanced" means in effect an economy in which capital steadily increases its productivity, an economy in which capital steadily moves from employments of lower productivity to employments of higher productivity. This is the one and only way in which a country can enjoy a high or a rising standard of living and full employment. This is also the one way in which a developed country can stay competitive as other, less-developed, countries begin to grow and expand their economic capacities and performance. As a result of fifty years of economic continuity, however, the developed countries today are organized to prevent mobility of people as well as to penalize mobility of capital. This tendency is particularly pronounced in the United States and Great Britainmay indeed be one of the major reasons why Great Britain has become a declining rather than a growing economy. But the other developed countries, whether Western Europe, the Soviet bloc, or Japan, are not too different, even though some of them have found means to inject some mobility into their economic structure. The greatest obstacle to economic growth in the United States and Great Britain is the craft organization of work and especially the craft union, which puts a tremendous premium on doing things the way they used to be done. The craft union, with its "jurisdictions" and "demarcations" (the former, the American, the latter, the British term for union restrictions), prohibits, by definition, the learning of new skills by its members and at the same time forbids access to skilled jobs by outsiders. The craft is obsolete. It is the wrong way to acquire skill. We can no longer afford apprenticeship, either economically or educationally. Skill, to be productive todayin fact, to be "skill" todayhas to be based on systematic knowledge. But even if craft skills were still the right skills, craft organization of work would be the wrong organization. Craft skill is the enemy of the craftsman himself. By asserting that skills are unchanged and that skilled workers are immovable, craft unions increasingly deny their members jobs and condemn them to sterility. The example of the newspapers in New York City and of

the American shipping and shipbuilding industries should be grim warning of the growing threat of the craft unionism to the craftsman himself. The aim of the craft union, namely, security of income and employment, can be attained much better and more easily by promoting mobility. Sweden has demonstrated this in the policy worked out twenty years ago by one of its trade union leaders, Gösta Rehn. Under this policy an autonomous agency working with the government, with industry, and with the labor unions is systematically promoting mobility of workers. It anticipates the job opportunities of tomorrow as well as the job redundancies likely to occur within the next year or two. It systematically prepares men to move from one kind of employment to another, and it has done so with singular success. It organizes, if necessary, the physical move of a man and his family out of a decaying into a growing community. Withal, this policy has been infinitely less expensive than paying for unemployment would have been. As a result, Sweden, which has undergone a more drastic industrial transformation in the last twenty years than any other Western country, has developed the work force for the new industries, while, at the same time, the Swedish worker, his skill, his standard of living, and his job satisfaction have constantly been upgraded. There is no reason why the Rehn policy could not be adopted in any other industrial country. It would accomplish everything the trade union wants, and do it much better than today's trade-union policies. It would, as it did in Sweden, bring out clearly that economy and society are committed both to mobility of labor and to making mobility a source of strength, of job security, of prosperity, and of satisfaction for the individual. But in the United States and even more in Great Britain, craft unionism is deeply embedded. This is not a "law of nature." It is not even a "law of industrialization." No other industrial country has craft unionism. In the countries that have grown the most in the last twenty years, Japan, Germany, and the Soviet Union, it is conspicuously absent.

In Germany, labor was organized on a craft basis before Hitler. When the labor unions were restored after Hitler, however, they were based on industries rather than on crafts. As a result, the constant fights in American and English industry as to who is entitled to do which job are unknown in Germany today, despite union strength and power. It will be exceedingly difficult to liquidate craft unionism in the Anglo-American countries, and yet it will be increasingly urgent to do so. Predictably this is going to be a central political problem for the United States and Great Britain. If it cannot be solved, economic decay in these two countries will be almost impossible to prevent. In every developed country there is a similar need to do what the Swedes have done: make mobility a goal of national policy. It must be accomplished in such a manner, however, that it strengthens job and income security for the worker and becomes something he wants and desires rather than something he dreads. The Wrong Tax Incentives Equally important and equally difficult will be the shift from a policy that penalizes the mobility of capital to one that encourages it. Folk wisdom has long held that new technology does not come out of the old, and especially the big old company. Although there is no inherent reason why this should be true, there have so far been few exceptions to this rule. (One, Bell Laboratories, has already been mentioned.) It is not RCA or GE that have the computer, but IBM, which at the eve of World War II had no scientists or engineers and was a very small company despite the ambitious "International" in its name. It is not the printing-press makers with their seemingly impregnable monopoly who have the new duplication and reproduction technology; it is Xerox, which as late as 1950 was a tiny, local job shop. It is not the major chemical companies that are the leaders in the new pharmaceutical industry. And General Motors or Ford are not leaders in the aircraft or space industries, despite their tremendous resources of capital and engineering talent. An apparent exception might be the nuclear-power plant, where General Electric and Westinghouse have worldwide leadership. But eco-

nomically the nuclear reactor is not much of an innovation. All it does is produce by new techniques the steam that had been producing electric power all along. However great the scientific and engineering achievement, the nuclear reactor is just another ''boiler" as far as the economy, the power user, and even the electric utilities are concerned. Actually, going into nuclear reactors was defensive rather than innovative for GE and Westinghouse, who, for almost a century, have had a dominant position in the generation and distribution of electric energy. In general, though with some important exceptions, the little fellow, whether a small company or the lone "garage inventor," has been more innovative than the large company. * To cite one example: despite all the money that the aluminum companies are spending on research, only one of seven major changes in aluminum processing has come from a major company. The remaining six have largely been the work of individuals or of small companies. By and large, then, the big and established company has not been a good environment for the new, small, and growing. The least-productive environment has clearly been government-sponsored research, which almost by definition is "big research." Although four-fifths or so of all scientists and engineers in research in this country today are supported by government money, either in large universities or in big companies, the total output is probably less than one-fifth of the total of new ideas, new knowledge, and new products. In an age in which technological innovation is likely to be active, rapid, and important, it will therefore be crucially important that small business can come into being and can grow. This, however, means access to capital. Not only is innovation expensive, but for every dollar spent on achieving an innovation, ten dollars has to be spent to develop it into a product, process, or service. Even more moneyup to a hundred dollars for each dollar originally spent on researchmay be needed to make and market the product before it produces a penny of profit. * This, at least, was the conclusion of a study made by sixteen of the nation's leading research administrators, all of them from such large companies as Union Carbide and Xerox, who in the spring of 1967 reported to President Johnson and the Congress on technological innovation.

Yet today's American tax laws put a tremendous premium on capital retention in the existing big and old business. In fact, the tax laws are the greatest engine for monopoly ever devised. No matter how actively the antitrusters try to prevent concentration of economic power and to stop big businesses from getting even bigger, the tax laws inevitably frustrate their efforts. The double taxation of corporate income paid out as dividendsfirst a tax on the profits of the corporation and then as tax on the income of the individual who receives a dividendsubsidizes and encourages retention of capital in the existing business, and especially in the existing big businesses. Unless a shareholder's total income is below $8,000 a year, he is better off getting the returns on his investment in the form of capital gains rather than as dividends. The great majority of shareholders therefore want the company in which they invest to keep the money and to invest it for them. This means that more and more of the economy's capital is inaccessible to the newcomer, that is, to the small and growing business and the independent innovator. What is amazing is not that the old, big companies have been able to maintain themselves. It is that despite the tax laws so many new companies have been able to develop and grow to the point where a great many of the "giants" of 1930 either do not exist at all today or have become minor and relatively unimportant businesses compared to newcomers nobody had ever heard of fortyor even twenty-fiveyears ago. But we cannot rely on Providence forever to bail us out of our stupidity. The right policy is known. It would not even cost government revenuesin fact, it might increase them. All that would have to be done is to remove the inducement to retain earnings and to restore the normal desire of a shareholder to receive dividends. If, for instance, the tax laws allowed the recipient of dividends to offset the corporate income tax already paid on his earnings against his personal income tax, dividends would at once be made attractive again to the shareholder. The government revenue this would lose would easily be recovered by raising the individual income tax by a few percentage points, especially in the upper brackets (and, in the United States, by abolishing the innumerable tax privileges on a variety of investments such as municipal bonds, which enable the very rich to pay no in-

come tax at all). Lest this be considered a subsidy to the rich, the tax offset might be limited to the effective rate of the corporation income tax, that is, to the rate the individual now pays on the kind of middleclass income enjoyed by a judge, a congressman, or a reasonably successful physician. Another obvious way out of the monopolistic tax policy would be to substitute the European value-added tax for the tax on corporation profits. There is another reason for such a shift: it would also strengthen the competitive position of United States and British goods in the world markets. Yet, while technically simple, such changes in the tax lawsand in the basic attitude underlying themwill be, politically, extremely difficult. The real reason behind American tax laws is not hostility to bigness. It is a deep desire to protect the status quo and to make life easy and comfortable for the fat and lazyamong businesses as well as among labor unions. Rapid change, with new industries and new business emerging fast, is neither easy nor comfortable, whether for managers, for union leaders, or for government administrators. There is deep-vested interest in double taxation. The labor unions everywhere are committed to high taxation of profits (rather than to high taxation of high incomes, though this would make a great deal more sense from the union point of view). The universities and colleges in the United Statesand charities altogetherhave a major interest in maintaining the present tax philosophy; corporate contributions to higher education, for instance, would hardly survive a reform under which the individual shareholder again looked upon the corporation as "his" asset rather than the property of the managers. The managers of the large existing companies, too, are unlikely to view such a change with great enthusiasm, no matter how much they now complain about the "burden of taxation" and oppose any increase in corporation income tax. These resistances are actually additional reasons for going through with such a reform anyhow, but they will not make it easier or politically more palatable. Instead we are almost certain to see attempts to evade the problem. One such attempt was made by the British Labour government in the fall of 1967. That the failure of capital to go into the new and more productive industries is one of the major reasons for the stagna-

tion of the British economy is generally accepted. It is also generally accepted, even by Socialist economists, that British taxation and government policies on investments are a main reason for this weakness. Instead of changing these policies, however, the Labour Government in the fall of 1967 proposed to use government money to subsidize new technology through the purchase of shares in low-profit new ventures. This proposal, if followed, could only lead to a large-scale waste of public funds. In earlier forays along this line, especially in the aircraft industry, the British government invariably backed the wrong innovations and the wrong investments. Moreover, the funds available would be much too small to have any impact and are no substitute for the funds a capital market would provide, if only allowed by the tax structure to move capital where results are likely to be had. Instead, the proposed measure would aggravate capital immobility; for the unprofitable, i.e., misallocated, investments in the wrong innovations would requireas did the earlier onesever-growing new subsidies. Government has a duty to protect. In a period of rapid economic change, there will be great and legitimate pressure for protection. It is unrealistic to expect modern government in a developed economy to return to the laissez-faire position of the late nineteenth century, no matter how desirable and socially advantageous this might be. However, the traditional and fundamentally dishonest way to protect, the hidden way, does infinitely more harm than good, and is not even the right way for those in need of protection. The right way was shown by the measures proposed by President Kennedy and adopted by Congress to shield American industries against sudden impacts of freer trade. These measures provided for generous but short-lived subsidies to the companies and the workers who were affected. This open and direct protection is in sharp contrast to tariffs or quotas which are hidden and do not appear as expenditures of governmentthough of course they are expenditures of the community. What we need, therefore, is a commitment of the developed countries to a policy of direct subsidy as against a policy of indirect protection. Protection deforms. Subsidies are at least in the open. More important, protection creates dependence which it is increasingly

difficult to abolish. A subsidy, on the other hand, can be directed toward remedying the weakness. It can be directed, as does the Swedish subsidy for mobility of labor, toward making the affected party capable of standing on its feet again. And it can be limited in timeis indeed always limited in time, since public opinion and the legislature will eventually become impatient with any permanent subsidy. It is, of course, not easy to stop an open subsidy. But it is infinitely easier than it is to stop a hidden protection, e.g., a tariff, a "buy-American" provision, or a depletion allowance for oil producers in the tax code. Politicians as well as bureaucrats dislike subsidies precisely because they are in the open. This, however, is their only virtue. The developed countries will need the self-discipline and the political honesty to use subsidies to replace indirect, protectionist policies. For those are always restrictive and always end up making the recipient weaker and less capable of survival than he was before. Focus on the World Economy Finallyand this may be the greatest shockthe large developed country will increasingly have to take its cues from the world economy and its trends and developments. No large developed economy today has reliable domestic measurements and indicators concerning its markets at home. Every market is so grossly manipulated by government policies of all kindsprice policies, wage policies, tax policies, subsidy policies, budgetary policies, credit policiesthat all gauges are "rigged." Economic policy, however, needs reliable measurements above all. In particular, it needs reliable measurements as to where the leading edges of technology and economy are. It needs to be able to anticipate what the new industries will be, and where resources, whether of men or of capital, are most productively employed. This, the domestic market no longer signals with any reliability. There is, however, one area in the economy where manipulation is notand is not likely to becomedominant. This is the international arena. Even in the Soviet bloc, transactions between the various countries have proven to be incapable of manipulation and have

escaped the most careful "planning." Even there, true values have established themselvesthe main reason why the attempt to create a unified controlled economy for the entire Communist world collapsed so ingloriously, in China as well as in the European satellites. International trade is not capable of being manipulated beyond a certain point. International transactions altogethercapital transactions, the movement of people, whether tourists or migrants, and the "balance of technology"cannot be rigged very far. They can be stopped temporarily; but the moment there is any freedom of movement, whether of capital or people, of technology or goods, a true balance re-establishes itself. For this reason, governments in the developed economies will have to learn to look outside and to develop their domestic policies on the basis of the indicators of the international economy. This is not making the international economy dominant. It is something much subtler: using the international economy as the yardstick. The smaller countriesHolland, Switzerland, and Swedenhave had to do this all along. International trade and international markets dominate their economies anyhow, whether they like it or not. But of the large countries only Japan since 1950 has been steered by the international economy. This is undoubtedly one of the central reasons for the phenomenal performance of the Japanese economy. If anyone in the late 1940's had bet whether Japan or Great Britain would do better in the postwar economy, he would without the slightest hesitation have bet on Britain. Of the two island economies, the British was not only the greatly more developed; British industry had come out of the war a good deal stronger than it had entered it, with new factories, new technologies, and a host of new products in which it had achieved leadership. Japan's industry, by contrast, was destroyed. The British were on a much higher level of skill, of education, and of economic performance. They were admired everywhere and they had maintained a prewar trading and financial network that covered the world. Whatever the Japanese had hadand it was not muchwas gone. Yet twenty years later, it is Japan that has forged ahead while Britain has fallen behind. One of the main reasons for this is that Japan lets the world economy determine its economic policies, whereas Britain made her economic policy serve principally the maintenance of her traditional,

domestic economy. It is fashionable today to blame the "welfare state" in Britain. It is true that Japan has not anywhere near the social provisions that Britainor for that matter, Germany or the United Stateshas for her workers and farmers. But compared to Japanese productivity and per capita income, Japanese welfare provisions, though organized in very different fashion (largely as customary rather than contractual employee benefits) are at least as high as those of the British welfare state. Japan has welfare rigidities, such as her "lifetime employment," which go far beyond any welfare burden the British economy might carry. The real difference is one of fundamental attitude, outlook, and policy. Everyone (including most Japanese) will say, "What choice did the Japanese have? Their economy is, after all, dependent on international trade." But this is not true, no matter how widely it is believed. Of all the major industrial nations, only one, the United States, is less dependent on foreign trade than Japan. All the others, France, Britain, Germanylet alone small countries like Sweden, Holland, and Switzerlandare infinitely more dependent. Barely 10 per cent of Japan's national product is exported and, conversely, barely 10 per cent of her national needs are imported. The figure of foreign dependence of the economy is 15 per cent for Britain and Germany, but well above 20 percent for Holland or Sweden. (It is 5 per cent for the United States.) What the Japanese realized twenty years ago was that they had to make sure their productive resources would go into tomorrow's rather than into yesterday's work. They further realized that it is the world economy that indicates where tomorrow is likely to be. For the past twenty years the Japanese have, therefore, systematically projected the trends of the world economy onto their economic policy, both domestic and international. Thus in international trade negotiations the Japanese have never bought time for an old industry by concessions in respect to a new one. They have never offered to limit their electronic exports, for instance, to gain greater access to a market for their cotton textiles, their bicycles, or their sneakers. The British, by contrast, have always offered to sacrifice the new industries to get a concession, no matter how small, for yesterday's decaying industries. Modern industry in

Britain is the equal of any industry anywhere. Yet Britain's exports are still dependent on the old industries. Japan, on the other hand, has cut the share of yesterday's industries in export from almost threequarters in 1950 to around one-third in 1967, while at the same time expanding the share of the new, modern industries from one-third of the total to almost two-thirds. Although Japan is not a "planned" economy, it is as bureaucratically controlled as Britain. But whereas the Japanese have used these controls to favor the future, the British have used them largely to defend the past. This is what nationalizing an old industry amounts to. The British have maintained the coal mines, the railroads, the steel industry, and (even though without nationalization) most of the cotton-textile industry. The Japanese, on the other hand, have used their bureaucratic controls to push capital into the new industries and to deny it to the old ones. They have used their bureaucratic controls to enable the new industries to obtain the bulk of the educated manpower. And they have used the control of the relationships between Japanese and foreign companies to push aggressively the importation of new technologyin electronics, in optics, in the pharmaceutical industry, and so onwhile restricting importation of technology in the old industries. The difference is best seen in the costumes that the two economies don when they show themselves abroad. At any world's fair or trade exhibition of the last twenty years, the British have featured their good old stand-byswhisky, woolens, chinaall of exceptional quality and all yesterday. The Japanese have featured the newe.g., the electron microscope (which dominated the Japanese exhibit at the New York World's Fair of 196465 to the point where most visitors thought the Japanese had invented this instrument); modern assembly-line shipbuilding methods; synthetic fibers; and of course cameras, tape recorders, and transistor radios. In Japan itself, the old industries are still tremendously important. No Japanese government would last long unless it supported cotton textiles and coal mines at home. But in economic policy, the Japanese have forced themselves to take their cue from the growing edges of the world economy.

What the Japanese have done for the last twenty years, the rest of the world will have to learn to do for the remainder of this century. Even if, as in the United States, the world economy appears to be quite unimportant for the domestic economy, it is the bellwether. It signals where tomorrow will be and where the domestic economy should move to be competitive, to be capable of growth, and to stay abreast, let alone to lead. Both business and government, in other words, will have to learn to put the future ahead of yesterdayin their policies, in their attitudes, in their organization and structure. In a period of continuity, yesterday could be expected to stay around for the morrow. To strengthen yesterday was therefore likely to strengthen tomorrow. In a period of change, and especially of rapid technological change in which new industries will appear as the economic leaders, to strengthen yesterday weakens tomorrow. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; A good many people may well ask: "Why do we need all this upsetting new technology anyhow? Isn't it time to call a halt to technological change? Aren't we affluent enough to concern ourselves with distributing better what we have rather than adding to it?" But the alternative to technological change and economic growth, especially in a period of rapid innovation, is not maintenance of the old; it is decay. This is particularly true for the countries that are today developed, that is, for the countries that have reached economic affluence. The industrially developed countries do indeed face basic questions as to the direction of science and technology. It is not a question whether scientific and technological change is wanted but a question of where very scarce human resources should be employed to get the best results from knowledge efforts. The debate will be over priorities rather than over the desirability of scientific and technological advanceover where the greatest results are, rather than whether we want results. The urgent need in the world today is for more production. Distribution alone cannot do the job, whether the concern is with the problem of poverty at home or with the problem of poverty throughout the world. The only way to tackle these problems is to enable the

poor to be more productive. This in turn demands economic growth in both developed and developing countries. It does not even matter greatly whether the developed countries would prefer to call a halt to technological change and economic growth. There is no sign that mankind is ready to forswear economic growth and with it technological change. There is no sign that the majority of mankind is willing to take vows of poverty while the minority in the developed countries lives in great wealth. Not only are the developing nations desperate for economic advancement; other developed nations, especially Western Europe and Japan (not to mention Russia), are eager to catch up with the United States and to push economic growth as fast as it can be pushed. Whether we like it or not, to maintain technological leadership and to encourage technological innovation in important industries will become increasingly important in the next decades. The penalties for failure will be even greater than they have been in the last twenty yearsand the example of Great Britain shows how dangerous it is to fall behind, even slightly, in the development and economic exploitation of new technology. The United States will have to learn that one as yet barely used economist's term, the "international balance of technology," is as important as the old stand-bys, "the balance of trade" or the ''balance of payments"and maybe more so. Every country will have to be able to import technology. There is so much new technology being produced that no one country, no one industry, and no one company can possibly hope to generate all it needs. But the only way one can, in the long run, pay for other people's technology is by technology of one's own. The only coin that pays for patents and licenses is patents and licenses. There is no better and more effective way to create a market for one's own goods, and with them for one's own labor force, than through the sale of technology. Every penny of patent or license income from a foreign country creates a market for up to a dollar's worth of goods from the country in which the new technology originated. Foreign investment in manufacturing companies abroad has a similar impact on creating export markets, but it requires prior capital outlay, that is, it first puts a burden on the balance of payments. Export of technology, however, requires the foreign buyer to put in

capital, while it yields an immediate income in the balance of payments. It should already be clear that the new technologies with the industries based on them are the only means for today's developed countriesabove all, the United Statesto maintain their present standards of living and economic health. The new industries use productively the resources in which developed countries have an advantage, that is, educated people. These industries are, one and all, "knowledge industries," using large numbers of "knowledge workers" and producing goods and services with a high knowledge content. The developing, poor countries can become wealthier and economically strong, however, only by developing the industries that have been the "modern" industries in the developed world for the last fifty years: modern and productive agriculture; the automobile industry, fertilizer and organic chemistry, steel and machinery, and so on. In the thirties the developed nations of the West found out they could no longer compete with Japan in labor-intensive industries in which wages for unskilled work are the major costcotton textiles, footwear, toys, and sewing machines. In a developed economy, unskilled labor is a gross misallocation of the most productive and most expensive of all economic resources, the human resource. Today, only thirty years later, the Japanese are finding out that they are no longer competitive in these industries. Such newcomers as Hong Kong, Singapore, and Pakistan are the truly competitive producers of labor-intensive goods today. Similarly the West, as well as Japan, is approaching the time when today's "modern" industries, especially the assembly-line, mass-production industries, are no longer going to be competitive with newcomers. For as a country's investment in knowledge and education goes up, employment in mass-production industries becomes increasingly a misallocation of the human resource. The cost level of an economy is determined by the cost of the most productive resource. Any resource which therefore produces a good deal less than the most productive one will inevitably be too expensive to be used widely. Or, to put it simply, the developed economies already pay the cost of knowledge and now will have to get the productivity of knowledge to remain competitive. This, in turn,

means that they cannot expect to remain competitive for very long in those industries in which the knowledge content is comparatively small, as it still is in those "modern" industries that have been carrying the load in the developed economies for the last fifty years. The United States, which pays the most for knowledge and produces the most educated people, will be less and less capable of maintaining its competitive position in the world and thus its own standard of economic performance and standard of living unless it takes and maintains leadership in the development of the new, the knowledge-based industries. Whether we want technological change and new industries is therefore not particularly relevant. The question before us is how to make a period of high technological change, that is, a period in which new industries are likely to emerge as fast and as frequently as they did a hundred years ago, into a period of economic growth, of social justice, and of individual well-being and achievement.

PART TWO FROM INTERNATIONAL TO WORLD ECONOMY

5 The Global Shopping Center One thing every economist, regardless of persuasion, knew at the end of World War II: Should France (or any of the other Western European countries) ever recover economically and become prosperous again, her economy would be quite different from that of the United States. She would undoubtedly develop markets and consumer habits in keeping with her distinct culture and tradition. This would be true, everyone was sure, even more for Japan with her "non-Western culture," and certainly for the tropical areas of Asia and Africa. Even ten years later, Mr. Khrushchev, during his visit to the United States, repeatedly stressed that the wants of an "affluent" Russian consumer would be quite different from those of the "capitalist" and "decadent" Americans. There would, for instance, be no demand for private automobiles in large numbers. There were a few dissenters. But no one listened to them. When Dr. Heinz Nordhoff took over the bombed-out Volkswagen factory in the late forties, he apparently dreamed of producing a European successor to Henry Ford's Model T. But he could not convince anyone in Germany. He was backed instead by the British Occupation Authorities in Germanybut only because their experts were quite sure that his venture could never succeed, let alone become a competitor to the British motor car manufacturers.

The British were certain, until well in the sixties, that the European Common Market had to fail. Mass markets, they arguedand most experts concurredsimply were not compatible with the European temperament and its nationalism. Their refusal in 1957 to join with the Continent in signing the Common-Market Treaty is one of the major reasons for Britain's troubles since. Now, of course, the Volkswagen's success is history. The British sue urgently for membership in the Common Market. And Russia has undertaken a crash program to become a major passenger-car producer by importing entire automobile plants from the West. We know by now also that the total disproof of what everybody was so sure of twenty years ago was not brought on by "Americanization" or "Coca-colonization," let alone by de Gaulle's "sinister conspiracy of the Anglo-Saxons." America had simply reached the mass-consumption economy ahead of the others. Our economy only demonstrated a little earlier the values, the demands, appetites, and economic preferences of peoples everywhere today. As soon as the masses glimpse, even from afar, the promise of economic growth and development, they want to shift from work as a way of life to a job as a means to a comfortable living. As a result, areas of satisfaction which the economist traditionally did not see at all are becoming central everywhere: mobility, access to information and education, and health care. If people cannot yet afford an automobile, they will at least get a motor scooter; and if they cannot afford a motor scooter, they will try for a bicycle. For the masses of the world, radio and TV are not "entertainment"as they are for the wealthy who have other means to learn about the world. They are the first access to a bigger world than that of peasant village or small-town slum. Just before TV got going in Japan, a leading Japanese electronics manufacturer prophesied that it would never become established on the farm; Japanese farmers did not have enough money to buy anything as expensive as a TV set. Three years later, almost every Japanese farmhouse sported a TV antenna above the rice-straw thatch of the roof. Twenty-five years ago the Andean Indians still sabotaged what few schools the Peruvian government had built in their remote highlands.

They tried hard to keep themselves and their villages isolated from, and inaccessible to, the outside world. Today the lack of schools is their greatest grievanceand next to it is the lack of roads to enable them and their produce to get to the outside world. India may be an underdeveloped country for almost all industries, but not for the pharmaceutical industry. It has become, in two short decades, a highly developed market for advanced and sophisticated drugs, as have many other developing nations. A universal appetite for small luxuries has emerged. They signify a little economic independence, a little control over economic destiny. They are a badge of freedom. Where the means are very limitedamong the poor or among teen-agers without much income of their ownthe small luxury may be a soft drink, a lipstick, a movie magazine, or a candy bar. For the emerging middle class, it may be the appliance in the kitchen. For the truly affluent it may be an advanced academic degree. That one can do without it makes the small luxury into a psychological necessity. Underlying these new demands and preferences is an even newer conviction: modern man need not tolerate poverty but can produce economic development and affluence for all. Such a thesis would have been inconceivable even thirty years ago. But at the very moment when half of the industrial world lay in rubble and ruin after the most destructive war ever fought, man decided that poverty in an age of technology and professional management is unnecessary and an engineering defect rather than ordained and man's natural condition. Perhaps the bestand also the most patheticillustration of this new economic world view is the "cargo cults" that have sprung up in the most remote and primitive South Sea islands since World War II. These religious sects believe in a magic "cargo ship" sent by the President of the United States that will land one day and bring to everyone the wealth of the advanced economiesphonographs and smoked meats, transistor radios, motorcycles, and drugs. An economy is, above all, defined by demand. Today the whole world, whatever its actual economic conditionand whatever the political system in force in a given areahas one common demand

schedule, one common set of economic values and preferences. The whole world, in other words, has become one economy in its expectations, in its responses, and in its behavior. This is new in human history. Underlying this common economic behavior is a community of information. The whole world today knows how everybody lives. The world economy is the new perception created by the new mediathe movies first, followed by radio and TV. Now the communication satellites are lofted overhead every place in the free world (they are about to be launched over Latin America by 1970, for instance). They bring the smallest hamlet in the high Andes or in the steaming jungles of Malaya as close to New York or London or the traffic jams on the Los Angeles Freeway as the people in these communities are themselves. Everyone then will have direct, immediate experience of how everybody else lives, what he wears, what he eats, what his house looks like, and what are his standards of living. Everyone will know as much about everybody else as villagers used to know about their next-door neighbor. In fact, everybody will have become everybody else's next-door neighbor. The whole world, in Marshall McLuhan's words, will have become one "global village." In terms of information, there is a closer community across continents today than existed between the slums and the mansions of the same eighteenth- or nineteenth-century city. These electronic media communicate things rather than what people are or think. They communicate, in other words, economics. They create a global shopping center. This is as great, and as new, an event as the emergence of a common demand-schedule, a common set of values and preferences. It too establishes a new community. Traditionally a community has always been defined as the area over which information could travel in one day. Up until one hundred years ago, this meant an area within a radius of ten to twenty-five miles. It is no accident that traditional boundaries of local government all over the world conform to this communitythe English shire, the American town, the German Kreis, the Japanese ken (established as late as 1870). But today information travels all over the world in a few seconds. It still took fifty hours, before World War II, for a person to travel from one coast of the

United States to the other. There is no place on the earth today that cannot be reached from any other place in less than a full day's flying time. One look at the crowds at the airports shows the impact on man's imagination. Deep in Africa or in Asunción in Paraguay, they listen to the loudspeaker announcing the arrival and departure of planes from and to the world's great cities. The remotest country is no further away than a suburban streetcar terminus was to the people who grew up only forty or fifty years ago. If an economy is defined as a common demand-pattern, it is also a pool of shared information. As soon as we share information, priority decisions on goals and on resource allocation to efforts are made for the entire area concerned. The moment we share information, there is a market. The world "information explosion" contributes to making the whole world one economy. This world economy differs in essentials from the "international economy" that first emerged in the eighteenth century and had, by 1900, become dominant almost everywhere. In an international economy there are no common appetites, no common demands, and only a minimum of common information. Each country in an international economy is a separate unit with its own economic values and preferences, its own markets, and its own largely self-contained information. It exchanges its surpluses against what other nations can produce. The international economy itself differs in its own structure and behavior from the economies of the individual countries. Traditionally, even between neighboring countries on the small European continent, people differed greatly in what they wore, how they built their houses and what they ate-so much so that the travel books right down to World War II devoted many chapters to information about these foreign and strange economies. Today this is "folklore"; the differences no longer lie in what people have or want, but in how much of the same things they have and can afford to buy. The difference lies in whether they are rich or poor; but they all belong to the same economic community. In many ways the change from international to world economy can be compared to the shift from the economies of the American colonies to the integrated continental United States economy.

Each of the thirteen colonies was deeply immersed in the international economy. Indeed each was far more dependent on international trade, both as to exports and to imports, than it ever was again after the establishment of the United States. Each was much closer to Europe than to its own neighbor on the American continent. Going to London from Boston or Philadelphia was, until the middle of the eighteenth century, easier than going from either to New York. Each colony had both its own distinct products for export overseaswhether timber in Maine or indigo in South Carolinaand its own distinct import needs. The United States became the first "continental economy." This, however, did not simply mean that it was a large trading area. It meant that it had throughout the whole areas the same demands, the same preferences, the same economic valuesand common information. The individual acted as a producer and consumer within a continental American market rather than as a "cosmopolitan" New Yorker or Virginian (indeed he became "provincial" where formerly he had been ''colonial"). The transformation did not come all at once. It was not really accomplished until after the Civil War, eighty years after political union (and perhaps not fully until 1914 when the Federal Reserve Act had created a continental economy and credit system). But in the end it had become immaterial economically whether a given producer or a given consumer was in the East, West, South, or North of the country. All that mattered was his productive capacity or his purchasing power. In the United States political unification preceded the unified economy. First came a legal fact and only much later its economic consequences. And the common trading territory came decades before there was a common economic perception and a common demand-schedule. The "American economy," as has been said so many times, was an act of political imagination rather than the creation of economic forces. Today's world economy, however, owes almost nothing to political imagination. It is coming into being despite political fragmentation. The demands, the appetites, the values are preceding, by a good margin, even the creation of trading units. Indeed the European Common Market was a belated institutional acknowledgment of what had become the reality of economic perception and of consumer behavior a good many years earlier.

Altogether the present world economy is one of perceptions rather than of institutions. Historically, e.g., in the development of the United States, producerswith the help of governments, as a rulecreated economic units. Consumers played no role, were indeed (as in the early years of the United States) opposed, or at best lukewarm. The new world economy is, by contrast, an achievement of the consumer. He lives in a unified, worldwide economy. Producersnot to mention governmentslag way behind. This, then, is a world economy in its demands. But there are, so far, no world economic institutions. There are, therefore, no instruments for a world economic policy, no tools to prevent or fight world economic crises. Global Money and Credit The great theme of modern economics is the autonomy of money and credit. The classical economists, including Marx, saw in money and credit a shorthand for events in the "real" economy of goods. The modern economistand Keynes in this area was not a pioneer but rather the summation of seventy-five years of worksees money and credit as an autonomous economic system which largely controls, or at least directs, the "real" economy. The classic economist wanted his monetary system to be passively responsive. The modern economist calls for initiative in monetary and credit policies and for an organ of purposeful monetary action. Both, however, agree that an economy must have a monetary system to be viable. Both agree that an economy can expand only if its money and credit supply can expand in step with trade and investment. Both agree that the poor in particular need a strong monetary system. Otherwise the smallest downturn in prosperity must lead to calling in the loans to them and squeezing them in a deflationary vise. Both classic and modern economists agree that an adequate monetary system is needed to prevent economic fluctuation from turning into severe crisis. Otherwise the slightest economic upset, a mere scratch, so to speak, or an attack of the sniffles, turns into deadly worldwide economic collapse, into worldwide economic sepsis or galloping pneumonia.

Both classic and modern economists agree that the major depressions of the centuryespecially the Great Depression of 19291939were caused, above all, by the inadequacy of the monetary system to handle the needs and cope with the problems of the international economy. Finally, both agree that the world economy of today does not have a viable monetary and credit system. Gold has been demonetized, though it is still fashionable to try to conceal this fact from the layman. It matters little in this connection whether we raise the price of gold to maintain the gold fiction a little longer, whether we stop using gold as a monetary reserve right away, or whether, by great sleight of hand, we manage to maintain the gold price of the last thirty-odd years, that is, $35 an ounce, while moving to another monetary base for the world economy. The very fact that we are now concerned with saving gold as a monetary metal makes it clear that gold is finished as a monetary metal. Gold has ceased to be capable of serving as the monetary foundation for the world economy. And the United States balance-of-payments troubles have little to do with its demise. Two other factors are much more pertinent, one grounded in the realities of the world economy, the other grounded in a change in the function of gold. World trade has been growing much too fast to be financed adequately on the gold foundation. The need for money increases faster than trade, whether the trade be domestic or international. Credit always grows faster than physical transactions. The "symbol" economy of monetary media therefore has to grow at a significantly faster rate than the "real" economy of goods and their exchange. That we can indeed speed up the growth of the ''real" economy by creating monetary mediathe fundamental axiom from which modern economics deriveshas not been proved. But that lack of adequate monetary supplies strangles the "real economy"that, in other words, expanding the production and distribution of goods depends on a continuous and steady growth in money supplyis clear. What made gold an excellent monetary base, namely its comparative scarcity, therefore renders it unusable as a monetary metal when trade grows faster than gold is being mined. Gold functions as a monetary metal only in an economy in which trade is limited and static.

Within the domestic economies, we found this out in the early nineteenth century. Today's discussions about world money are remarkably similar to the great debate of 1820, out of which modern central banking first emerged in England. In this debatewhich is identified with the name of David Ricardo, the father of economic analysiswe learned that a true money economy cannot be based on gold aloneor on any other natural resourceas foundation for the money supply. The economy needs a central bank that is a specific organ for the creation and management of money and credit. The international economy of the nineteenth century was based on the gold standard; but in every developed country the internal economy, while restrained by gold, was actually controlled and directed by a central-bank mechanism for the management of money and credit. Now that the world is becoming a genuine economy, we face a repetition of the events of a hundred and fifty years ago, only on a worldwide scale. But the second reason why gold is no longer a reliable monetary unit is equally important. It is the increasing usefulness of gold as an industrial material. A monetary metal, every textbook has pointed out for over a hundred years, must not have any other use. It must be totally outside commerce and industry. Otherwise its price, as well as its supply, no longer depends on its monetary function. The money and credit system of an economy becomes subordinate to the vagaries of technology, of industrial fluctuations, and of minor economic events. And this is intolerable. Silver ceased to be usable as a monetary metal when the photographic film first began to put large quantities of the metal to a nonmonetary purpose. By the end of the nineteenth century photography had converted silver into an industrial raw material, and thereby finished its usefulness as a monetary base. The same thing is now happening to gold. Less and less of the newly mined gold is available for monetary purposes. It is being used industriallyand this is the end of it as a monetary metal. Raising the price of gold is, therefore, at best a temporary expedient. It does not come to grips with the real problem at all. Yet it is far more practical and realistic than the approach the United States has been taking for twenty-odd years, the policy to which, at this writing, the prestige and power of the United States are still com-

mitted. This is the "key-currency" concept, with the United States dollar as the key currency. Under such a concept, the currency of a country is at the same time the currency of a world economy. As we have known since Ricardo pointed it out, however, these two functions are incompatible. Even the cleverest juggling cannot harmonize their conflicting demands. * If the larger economy (in our case the world economy) grows, it requires a steadily growing supply of money and credit. Under the key-currency approach, this means that the supply of the key currencythe United States dollar these last twenty yearsavailable to the world economy has to increase all the time. The more the world economy grows, the larger the United States balance of payments deficit, therefore, has to beor else the world economy is strangled by a "liquidity crisis," that is, by a shortage of money and credit to carry on trading transactions. There is a limit to this process, however, and it is never far off. First the other countries in the world economy will not indefinitely accept the currency of one of their members. They will, sooner or laterand rightlydemand that the "key country" put its own financial house in order and establish a proper balance in its international accounts. This, however, means curtailing the credit supply of the world economy. The more successful an economy is in which the monetary supply is furnished by a key currency, the sooner will it run into a severe and inevitable deflationary crisis. And the more successful the economy has been, the more severe will the crisis have to be. But the key-currency concept is also an intolerable threat to the key country itself. It can work only if foreigners accept monetary promises, namely, the currency of the key country. This they will do only as long as they are reasonably sure that they can convert these promises at will into their own currency. The more successful the world economy under the key-currency concept, the greater, therefore, is the danger of a "run on the bank"that is, on the key * In Ricardo's days, these discussions were carried on in the context of a national economy. The key currency then was the monetary issue of commercial banks within a nation, and was at one and the same time a medium of exchange, that is, money, and the form in which a bank financed its commercial business.

countryand the greater is the danger that the key country will be paralyzed by a self-induced collapse of its own monetary system. Yet this is the policy to which the United States has been committed ever since the end of World War II. At the Bretton Woods Conference of 1946, where the postwar monetary system was set up, the greatest monetary economist of our times, Lord Keynes, warned against the key-currency approach and proposed instead a truly international currency (he called it "Bancor"). Keynes knew that the real danger of the key-currency concept is not economic. It is that the key country becomes proud of its prominence, and arrogant. Then it makes, inevitably, the worst mistakes. Keynes was conscious of this because he had seen it happen in his native Britain after World War I. Then, the pride in the key-currency role of the British pound led to the re-establishment in 1928 of the old international exchange value of the British currency, a value that was much too high for the economic realities of the post-World War I period. This mistake, which Keynes sharply criticized at the time, undoubtedly was one of the major factors in the collapse of the pound three years later, and in the worldwide sweep and depth of the Great Depression. The United States, out of the key country's pride that Keynes had feared, has been wasting years that may never come back. When John Kennedy first became President, we could probably have brought about a lasting solution in the form of a genuine world monetary system. We had the economic strength, and we also had unimpaired political leadership. France, which since has been fighting every attempt to establish such a system, had then neither the economic resource nor the political power to play even a negative role. Nor, it should be said, was there any lack of understanding of the problem. Proposals for world currency reform were well formulated and well known in 1960. But instead of pushing them, the United States government until 1965 fought every single one of them. There are reasons for America's strange behavioras for that of Britain and of France. The economics of the problem are perfectly clear; but the politics are highly problematical. Although economi-

cally the world (or at least the non-Communist world) is one unit, politically there has been increasing fragmentation. Where the largest integrated economy of earlier days, the United States economy, was the result of political action which preceded economic unity and indeed created it, the world economy of today has emerged without political foundation. Yet to "coin money" has for many centuries been considered a prerogative of the political sovereign and indeed an essential attribute of sovereignty. The world monetary system we need would not require any political power. It would not be "supernational." But it would have to be "nonnational.'' It would have to take control of the world money and credit supply out of the hands of political powers and make it into a technical function to be decided by technical, that is, by purely economic, considerations. We did this to some considerable extent with respect to the domestic money supply when we created the modern central bank. But the perennial conflict in every country between the demand that the central bank follow governmental policy and the demand that money and credit be "nonpolitical" and determined by economic reasoning alone shows that the "nonnational" money and credit function we need for the world economy would be a difficult political innovation. The idea that any one country has full monetary sovereignty is, of course, absurd. If such a state ever existed, it disappeared the moment there was an international economy. Every country has always had to adjust its internal money and credit policies to the realities of its international economic position. The British Labour government today is not the first to find this outbut it is also not the first to resent it and to look for a scapegoat (though few earlier resentments found as ridiculous a scapegoat as the one the British picked in 1967, the "Gnomes of Zurich"). Although the authority needed to manage a world economic monetary and credit system would be both limited and under strict supervision and control of the member governments, it would still be an "authority." To have such an authority is, of course, the entire purpose. For what is needed is an agency that makes decisions for the best of the world economy and in contemplation of the total economic picture. These decisions will not always coincide with what this or that individual country at the

moment thinks best for itself. Nor can they be decisions by majority vote. They have to be the result of the best expert judgment by the people in charge of the monetary system of the world economy. Small wonder, then, that the major opposition to any movement toward such a system has been led by President de Gaulle, that is, by the most outspoken and uncompromising representative of traditional national sovereignty in the present world. Embryo Institutions The history of the United States' monetary system in the closing years of the ninteenth century and the opening years of the twentieth century is a close parallel to our present difficulties. And the Federal Reserve System, as it emerged at the end of this period, in 1914, is a good illustration how what seems to be politically impossible can be accomplished. We know today that Bryan and his Silver Bloc were both right and wrong in the 1890's. They were right in their belief that the growth of the United States economy, and especially the economic survival of the poor and the debtors, were strangled by what today we call a "liquidity crisis." They were wrong in believing that monetizing silver, i.e., inflation at home, could resolve the crisis. But the "Gold Bugs," the conservative Eastern bankers, were also both right and wrong. They were right in their opposition to Bryan. They were wrong, however, in denying that there was a crisis and a problem other than that created by the improvidence of farmer and manufacturer. There was no problem for the "Gold Bugs" because their superior economic strength enabled them to monopolize the available money and credit supply. But there was a problem all rightfor the rest of the country. The sudden influx of gold in the late nineties from the newly discovered gold fields of South Africa and Alaska postponed the crisis. It did exactly what raising the price of gold would do now. But by 1905 the crisis was back. It was not resolved until the Federal Reserve System was created in 1914. This system gave the country a financial mechanism that allowed local autonomy and yet provided for central management of money and credit. It, in effect, enabled the same amount of credit to do almost twice, if not three times, as much economic work as before. The historical parallel could be extended even further. What delayed creation of the Federal Reserve System until it was almost too late was

rivalry among the major New York bankers, especially the Morgans, the Rockefellers, and the Stillman groups. Similarly today rivalry among the rich countriesespecially the United States, Great Britain, and the Western Europeansis delaying, already past the critical point, adoption of the needed world credit mechanism. In one important respect the world economy is much better off than the United States was seventy years ago. There were then, before World War I, no institutions that could possibly have done the job. The only thing known was systems that could not work: the anarchy and strangulation of the existing arrangements under which the larger New York banks each managed a monetary system in competition with its New York neighbors, each, to use present monetary terms, claiming to furnish the key currency for the whole country; and the central banks of the small, compact, and homogeneous European countries which would have been quite inappropriate to a country as large and diverse as the United States. The Federal Reserve System had to be accepted on faith when Frederick Warburg invented it in despair over our monetary chaos. Today we have, however, an available institution that has proved itself in well over twenty years of servicethe International Monetary Fund, created in 1946 and blessed since by a succession of singularly able directors such as the Swede, Per Jacobsson, and the present director, the Frenchman, Pierre-Paul Schweitzeran institution that is universally respected. Today we could, in other words, move fast, without much legislation, without a great deal of political debate, and without much furor in public. The most essential things for such a move have already been accomplished. We have, to repeat, demonetized gold for all intents and purposes, for central banks, economists, and ministries of finance. When the public finds out, it will be a nasty shock; but by that time, the actual event is likely to be well in the past. Indeed, we may have made the decisive step during 1967 in a highly technical and obscure arrangement in which the member governments of the International Monetary Fund may have created a new monetary asset, called "special drawing rights." A great deal

depends on the way these are being used. But they may develop into the first genuine monetary mechanism of the world economy. But it is possible still that we will kill off the world economyand damage ourselves badly in the processfor want of a monetary and credit system appropriate to the economic achievement of the last twenty years. We may bring down on our heads the worst economic crisis the world has ever seenand largely for lack of political courage, for vanity and pride in the dollar's role as a key currency, and because we preferred for twenty long years to be clever rather than right. There is a second institution that the world economy needs: a producing and distributing institution that is not purely national in its economic operations and point of view. The world economy needs someone who represents its interests against all the partial and particular interests of the various members. It needs an institution that has a genuine self-interest in the welfare of the world economy, an institution that, in pursuing its own goals, serves the world economy rather than any one of the individual national economies. Traditionally such an institution has always been political, that is, a government. Because the world economy is strictly an economic community, the institution that represents it will have to be an economic rather than a political institution. Indeed it cannot possibly function unless it respects the political institutions of the nation-state. The individual sovereign states, especially the big, strong, developed countries will not accept a supergovernment of any kind. Such an institution, too, we already have at hand. Its development during the last twenty years may well be the most significant event in the world economy, and the one that, in the long run, will bring the greatest benefits. This institution is the "multinational" corporation. For a long time businesses have been operating all over the globe. There were the great trading companies like the East India Company and, in the nineteenth century, the merchant bankers, especially those of London. Manufacturing industry, too, has long ventured abroad. International Harvester, Singer Sewing Machine, Standard Oil, and the Ford Motor Company all started to manufacture and sell in many countries almost the moment they got going in the

United States. The chemical and machinery companies of Switzerland and the electronic and chemical firms of Holland started early to branch out internationally. Their home markets were too small to permit efficient operations. Even in the case of the Swiss and the Dutch companies, yesterday's international operations were, however, different from today's. The operations outside the mother country were "subsidiaries." They were started primarily because tariffs created barriers to exports from the parent company. They were managed from the home office and, as a rule, by nationals of the home country. They were run in strict subordination to the needs and interests of the parent company at home. They were, in effect, sales agencies that manufactured abroad because they had little choice. They were not members of a multinational business but subsidiaries of a national one. The difference shows, above all, in management structure. In the international company of yesterday, top management was typically also the management of the domestic operations, that is, of the parent company. Its main concern was with the home market. The foreign or international operations were managerially quite subordinate. They had to be content with whatever time top management could spare them after the needs and demands of the parent company had been taken care of. The famous organization structure which Alfred Sloan built for General Motors in the 1920's, and which, in most management textbooks, is still presented as the "last word," shows this focus clearly. The domestic business of the company in the United States was organized in several big groups, each headed by a group executive who was a member of top management. The entire international business was in one separate groupbut the head of this group was not a member of corporate top management and did not have a seat on the major committees that governed the company. By contrast, the organization General Motors adopted in 1967 separates corporate top management from operations in any one geographic area, whether the United States, Europe, Asia, or Africa. And while the United States still dominates in the managerial structurein which respect the General Motors organization is well behind the economic realities of

General Motors' businessit is at least now headed by a group executive with equal status in top management. Increasingly the multinational corporation structures itself so as to have only one top management which does not concern itself at all with the operations of the business in any one area. The operating units are not set up by area but rather by stages of development. The developed countries may be one major managerial responsibility, with the United States, Canada, Europe, and Japan in one organizational component. The developing areasSouth America, India, the Middle Eastmight be the second managerial unit. And the undeveloped areas might be the rest. The multinational corporation of the period since World War II is largely the result of a deliberate planning effort which sees the economy of the entire free world as one and then tries to find the places where economic resources produce the greatest results and bring the highest returns. The rationale is increasingly not the inability to export over tariff barriers but the need to plan, organize, and manage on a scale appropriate to the magnitude of technical and managerial resources required for modern technology, economical operations, low-cost production, and mass distribution. The multinational corporation tends increasingly to operate in terms of a world economy. This applies to the American companies that have been going into Europe, into joint ventures in Japan, or into fertilizer plants in India. It also applies to the Swiss pharmaceutical companies. After World War II the Swiss, rather than use their capital for expansion in Europe, deliberately poured it into the expansion of their United States subsidiaries until these became larger than the parent companies. The multinational corporation is multinational in its management personnel and increasingly in its scientific and technological foundations. Up to and through World War II, it was almost unheard of to have nationals in senior management positions of foreign subsidiaries in developing countries. The first Indian in a senior management position of a Western-owned companya director of Hindustani Lever, a subsidiary

of Unileverwas appointed only after the start of World War II. For many years the New York industrial and trading firm of W. R. Grace &amp; Co. was almost alone in putting Latin Americans into the management of its subsidiaries in Peru, Chile, and Colombiabut then W. R. Grace was originally founded in Peru, albeit by an Irishman who soon moved to New York City. It is still comparatively rare to find foreigners at the very top of the parent company in a multinational corporation (though this is the case now in such major companies as IBM, Corn Products, and Standard Oil of New Jersey among the Americans, and in the Anglo-Dutch Shell Oil Company). But it is increasingly common to find foreign nationals just below the top. The Swiss pharmaceutical companies, with their headquarters in Baselperhaps the last remaining "city-state" in Europewere notorious for not admitting anybody but Basel natives into their management. In one of them a Frenchman is now in charge of scientific research, and an American is now the worldwide marketing coordinator, who decides which of the company's plantsin Switzerland, in other continental European countries, in Great Britain, in Japan, in Berlin, in the United Statesshould supply which drug to which of the company's many markets the world over. Increasingly, research and development are becoming multinational if only because they have to go where qualified people can be found. An American pharmaceutical company has built a major research center in England and another one in France; it is a partner with a Japanese company in a research center near Tokyo. IBM has major technical centers in at least five countriesthe United States, Britain, Germany, France, and Japan (and one in Latin America is probably not far off in the future). The list could be continued indefinitely. The impact of this development has been great, even though few policy makers in government have yet taken cognizance of it. That there is a European Common Market in reality and not just

on paper, one of the leading economists in Europe commented at a recent meeting, is the achievement of the American multinational companies. This is also a main theme of Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber's Le Défi Américain (The American Challenge), which has been a European best seller since it first appeared in 1967. American companies started out with the assumption that a Common Market makes sense. They were used to large markets and knew their economic impact and importance. They therefore began to plan, as soon as the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957, in terms of a unified European market with free movement of goods, of people, and of capital from one end to the other. Few European businesses have so far acted as "Europeans." The Dutch and the Swiss and the Swedes are the exceptions; they had been "multinational" for some time. The Germans, by and large, did not see or understand the opportunity. The British, with few exceptions, still look "overseas'' rather than to the European Continent. The French have been forced by their own government to resist European unification actively. De Gaulle in particular has forced French industry to follow a course guaranteed to be least beneficial to French business, to the French nation, and to Europe. He has forced those French companies that were too small and too weak to compete successfully in the big integrated European Market to merge with one another. This has created companies that are still much too small, and too parochial, to compete successfully in the European market, and yet so big as to endanger the French economy should they get into trouble. The one thing De Gaulle has achieved this wayand it is a very dubious accomplishmentis to make almost certain that the French government will eventually have to take over the purely national dinosaurs he has foisted on France. For every business, sooner or later, gets into trouble. But for the American company, in other words, the European Common Market would have been effectively sabotaged, whatever the provisions of the Treaty of Rome or the decisions of the Council of Ministers, by the narrow parochialism of most European business aided and abetted by European governments. Because of the American company, however, there is a functioning European Common

Market today. As Servan-Schreiber points out, American business in Europe is the world's third-largest industrial complex, producing more over-all than either Germany or Japan. Similarly, today in Latin America multinational corporationsmostly American, of course, but also Dutch, Swiss, and to some extent Britishare planning in terms of Latin America and of a Latin American Common Market. Most Latin American businesses, and even more their governments, worry how to protect themselves against economic integration. The multinational outsiders take it for granted that Latin American economic integration is beneficial and ask: "How can we speed it up?" Most Latin Americans know that economic integration is essential to the economic growth of their continent. Yet at a conference of Latin American businessmen, which I attended in the spring of 1967, the major topic was: "How can we escape getting hurt by a Latin American Common Market?" At the same time, an American multinational company, Singer Sewing Machines, held a meeting of all its Latin American managers in the same hotel to discuss how to take fullest advantage of the economic integration of the South American continent. And a few weeks later a leading Dutch company in South America held a similar meeting. Equally important is the contribution of the multinational corporation as the engine of human development. The most encouraging development in the poor nations today is the emergence, all over, of small clusters of men who are taking initiative and responsibility for the development of their own community. They are the men I call the "entrepreneurs." Though most of them come out of business, they do not confine themselves to business. They also take responsibility for the local hospital and the local university, for housing, public health, and local government. They were behind the revolution that prevented collapse into anarchy or Communist takeover in Brazil a few years back. They are the force behind whatever development there has been in India (for the Indian government, it is clear, has shown more capacity to retard development than to advance it). They are responsible for the re-

markable achievement of the Chinese in Formosa, and so on. The leaders of these groups started, as a rule, as managers in the local subsidiary of a multinational corporation, particularly in South America, or, as in Formosa, as local partners in joint ventures with a multinational corporation. The multinational corporation is thus proving itself the most effective tool for the most important job to be done if there is to be economic and social development: the development of the leaders. Finally, the multinational corporation is the only institution so farand the only one visible on the horizonthat creates a genuine economic community transcending national lines and yet respectful of national sovereignties and local cultures. The management meeting of one of the multinational corporations is the only truly supernational occasion in the world today. Here men of different nationalities, each a member of his own culture and proud of it, come together in a common purpose. The purpose is an economic one and therefore fairly easy to define, to measure, and to control. The multinational corporation is still a most imperfect institution. It abounds in problemsof organization, of personnel, of communications. But its most serious problem is simply that "multinational" today, in most parts of the world, means "American." Even though there are a good many non-American multinational corporations around, the Americans greatly outnumber all the others. Indeed the Americans are so visible that the others are rarely seen. The Swedish multinational companies may have grown much faster than the American. The Swiss or the Dutch company may very well dominate a certain industry in a small country, as for instance Philips of Holland dominates consumer electronics in a good many Latin American countries. But when people in Latin America talk of the "octopus," they do not mean Philips. They rarely realize that the largest Inter-American company (other than the petroleum companies) is not a United States business, but an Argentinian one, Bunge &amp; Born, whose plants for edible oils, cosmetics, paint, and soaps blanket the continent. Even those who know of the existence of Bunge &amp; Bornand not many

dothink rather of much smaller American businesses (e.g., W. R. Grace and Co.) when they discuss the "multinational" company. The reason is, of course, that in the American company the economic power of a giant business is conjoined to the economic and political power of the world's richest and most powerful nation. No one is afraid of Swedish or Swiss "imperialism." But the American multinational company represents America. It represents managerial competence; but it also represents power. It, therefore, casts a much bigger shadow than its economic resources alone would justify. This is greatly aggravated by the traditional insensitivity of the American government, both in the Executive Branch and in Congress, which is a greater enemy of the multinational corporation than General de Gaulle is or will ever be. He opposes it, of course, because it is multinational. But the American government, unwittingly, wants it to be American first and last. Politicians in Congress, as well as bureaucrats in the government offices, insist on treating the foreign affiliate of an American-based company as an extension of America. This is not only revealed in their subjection of the foreign affiliates to lawsantitrust laws are one examplethat are incompatible with the legal ethics of the countries in which they operate. It appears even more in regulations that impose on subsidiaries that are legally citizens of that sovereign, foreign country, American policies which are in direct violation of the policies of the country of domicile. A good example of this attitudeand of the harm it can dois the imposition of our peculiar regulations for doing business with Communist countries (which, anyhow, are in violation of international law as we ourselves have always understood it) on companies domiciled in Canada but owned by an American parent. Nothing, perhaps, has created as much resentment against "American domination" of Canada as this assertion of economic might over legal right. The multinational company is exceedingly profitable for the United States. Every dollar invested in a subsidiary abroad leads to many dollars of American exports within a very short time, in

addition to a flow of dividends. In fact, investment abroad during the last twenty years has fueled full employment in the United States, quite apart from making possible the maintenance of an American foreign policy based on lavish expenditures of money, largely earned by the multinational companies through the exports and dividends they generate. Altogether the foreign-exchange earnings of the American-based, multinational corporation have become the largest source of income in the American balance of payments. But, above all, the multinational corporation is the one instrument, so far, which has effectively stimulated economic development way beyond anything governmental aid programs have achieved. It is, therefore, in the best interests of the United States, as well as in the best interests of a developing, peaceful, prosperous world, to strengthen this instrument. To forget that it can only be effective if it acts as a "multinational" institution is extremely shortsighted. Our politicians and our bureaucrats are still living in a world in which America was isolated. Their belief that the laws of international comity bind the foreigner but not the American government was gross stupidity even when we could afford it, that is, when America was the only healthy and strong economy that existed right after World War II. But that period came to an end with the Suez Crisis in the mid-fifties. Now we need the outside world as much as it needs us. Our economic strength will count for nought unless we succeed in getting economic development going in a few important areas in the poor world. This, in turn, requires that we enable the multinational corporation to do its job. Nobody else has done anything remotely as effective to date. It means self-restraint and respect for others in the treatment of what is a most important but also a fragile instrument, and one that deserves a great deal more attention and care than the American government has so far given it. If "multinational" remains a euphemism for "American," the multinational corporation will not long survive. The rapid development of new additional multinational corporations with a non-American base is thus essential to the survival of a valuable institution. It is important to the world economy, for instance, that the Japanese, rapidly growing into the second-strongest industrial nation of the free world, develop their own multinational corporations. This is also in

the urgent interest of Japan. For the Japanese cannot hope to increase their exports much further unless they create manufacturing subsidiaries abroad, above all in the developed nations. As Japan's industry becomes increasingly highly developed and technological, it will need the export markets that only the subsidiaries of a multinational corporation can adequately produce. Europe, too, to remain competitive and viable in the world economy, will have to develop new multinational corporations, European in their scope, but also, like their American counterpart, capable of operating anyplace in the world. Indeed the great European economic revival of the last fifteen years is unlikely to maintain itself if it remains European alone. Not only is every single European country too small to be an adequate base for modern large-scale industry; any single area in the world is too small. A world economy requires businesses that can operate worldwide. It requires businesses that can think in terms of the world economy, can plan in terms of the world economy, can make and sell throughout the world economy. At the same time, we will need to develop law and policies for the multinational corporation. It must be a genuine "citizen" of the countries in which it operates. Yet it must be encouraged to be truly multinational in its economic policies, in the opportunities, rewards, and incentives it offers its managers, its scientists, and its technical people, and, above all, in economic viewpoint. It must be encouragedor at least not be discouraged from tryingto represent the unity of the world economy. This means that we need to alter American public law and policy to encourage this development. I have said earlier that the traditional industries which have carried economic growth and development in the last twenty years are likely to have their greatest potential from now on in the poor, developing countries. In those countries the steel industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the electronics industry, the food-processing industryand other old industriesare still growth industries. Indeed in those countries they are likely to be the major growth industries, since they can be built by importing technology, marketing knowledge, and management. For this reason alone the multinational corporation needs to be developed and to be fostered. It is the best instrument we have for generating entrepreneurial, managerial, and technical com-

petence in the developing nations, but also for calling forth and training genuine patriots willing and able to give leadership to their own countries and their own communities. But unless we make it an even better instrument, it is not going to survive. It will have to become truly multinational in its mission, in the way it goes about its job, in the way it represents itself in the countries in which it operates and in the way in which its home government treats it. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; The world economy is not yet a communitynot even an economic community. Yet the existence of the "global shopping center" is a fact that cannot be undone. The vision of an economy for all will not be forgotten again. On the contrary, the worldwide communication of goods, services, standards of living, and ways of life will become ever more pervasive. To develop into a genuine community, the world economy needs to mature the institutions that it has today only in embryonic form. It needs a money and credit system to provide circulation of purchasing power and investment. The very rich can, perhaps, prosper without it. For it is to them that money and credit flow in the absence of an adequate system. But the poor are deprived even of the little they have unless there is a functioning and well-managed monetary system. The world economy needs the multinational businessan institution based on the global economy rather than parochial, on finding and developing the opportunities for common growth, and equipped, in its own interest, to find and develop talents for responsible leadership. The world economy is a great achievementand one of business rather than of governments. It is the one positive achievement of the period since World War II. It is also a great opportunityfor economic growth as well as for creating a focus of unity in a fragmented and strife-torn world.

6 Making the Poor Productive The world economy, this great opportunity for peace and growth, also generates a new threat of world revolution, the threat of a war of the poor and largely colored peoples of the world against the rich and largely white. There is greater disparity between the rich and the poor today than there has ever been before. It is increasingly a disparity within one and the same community of information. It is, at the same time, a disparity between races rather than a cleavage between classes. This is new. China was much richer in the sixteenth century than England. But the Chinese gentlemen of Elizabethan times lived by and large on a very similar standard to that of the English gentlemen of the time. And so did the poor in the two countries. Today, however, the English workingman (not to mention the American) lives much better than any but the exceedingly rich in most countries of the world can even dream about. Today it is the workingman in the developed countriesand even the poor on relief in these countrieswho are the "rich" in the world. The world has become divided into nations that know how to manage technology to create wealth, and nations who do not know how to do this. Within the rich nations technology has succeeded to an amazing extent in overcoming the cleavage between the rich and the poor, not by making the rich

poorer, but by making the poor richer. It has thereby overcome to a very large extent that haunting specter of the nineteenth century: class war within industrial society. But this has been replaced by a gap in income and opportunities between nations and cultures which never existed before. Even if such a gap had existed in earlier times, it would not have mattered much. If, 400 years ago, the poorest Chinese had lived as well as the English duke, no one in England would have known about it. It would have been a traveler's tale on a par with stories about mermaids, unicorns, and other fables. Today, however, we see how other people live every day on the TV screen in our living room, as direct, personal, immediate experience. This is a gap within one and the same community, therefore. The gap is primarily a gap between races. It has lately become fashionable to talk about the "North-South gap," which implies that climate is responsible for the inability of two-thirds of mankind to break out of pre-industrial poverty. * This is dangerous, self-deluding euphemism. The Chinese, the largest single group among the pre-industrial peoples, are northerners to a man. All India lies north of the Equator; and the great bulk of the Indian population lives well north of the tropics. Every single population center of Latin AmericaMexico City, Buenos Aires, Bogotá, Lima, Santiago, São Paulo, even Riolies climatically in the temperate zone. The fact is that all the world's rich nations, excepting only the Japanese, are whiteand this includes the Russians, of courseand all the world's poor nations, excluding only part of Latin America, are colored. ** That the cleavage is above all racial shows clearly in the United States, where the poor are predominantly Negro. The American Negro is indeed the representative of the poor races within the richest nation. The American Negro problem is, therefore, the most * This is the thesis of Gunnar Myrdal's recent book Asian Drama (New York: Pantheon Books, 1968). ** Even in Latin America the cleavages are largely racial, e.g., between the fast-developing and largely white industrial triangle of Brazil: Rio, São Paulo, Bello Horizonte, and the wretchedly poor and entirely black northeast, or between growing, primarily Spanish Lima and the misery of the Andean Indians.

important, the most acute, and perhaps the most dangerous instance of the worldwide problem. If the United States, the world's richest, technologically most advanced, and managerially most accomplished country, cannot bring about economic and social development of a nonwhite minority in its midst, then it will be taken as proved, by white and colored alike, that there is an unbridgeable race conflict By the same token, however, our ability in this country to resolve the problem of Negro destitution and to bring about rapid Negro development may also be the greatest possible contribution to the world race problem. The American Negro represents the world's pre-industrial rural people in industrial society. He represents also the most acute problem of "colonialism," that is, of a growing inequality between the white and the colored peoples of the world. Yet race is not the explanation. Clearly nonwhite races are capable of developmentas witness the Japanese with nothing in their background, let alone in their genetics, to make them part of the "Judeo-Christian Tradition." The three non-Communist Chinese communitiesHong Kong, Formosa, and Singaporehave shown tremendous capacity for rapid economic and social growth in the last twenty years. At the same time, there are people of European stock, for instance the South Americans, who apparently do not have this capacity. And few areas in Latin America are as "underdeveloped" or as "colonial" as most of Spain or Sicily. Whatever the reasons for it (and we know a good deal about them by now), it is clear that this cleavage will be overcome. Either the poor will become richer, or the rich will not long remain rich. In the developed countries of North America, Western Europe, and Japan, we are being told today that we will work only half an hour a week by the year 2000 and enjoy a standard of living many times what it is today. This, bluntly, cannot happen. One-third of a community cannot live in idle luxury while two-thirds toil eighty hours a week to gain the merest subsistence. It cannot happen when everybody knows how his neighbor lives. It cannot happen in the Global Shopping Center the world economy has become. One way or another the rich will be stopped from becoming ever richer while the poor at best remain where they are. One obvious way to prevent this

is warhowever much we may dislike hearing it. Mankind has always found it easier to destroy wealth than to create it. A succession of Vietnams would not, perhaps, prevent increases in the standard of living of the industrial world. But it would guarantee that they would not be accompanied by ever-increasing leisure. That the New Left, parroting the Mao line, looks forward to a ''succession of Vietnams" to "bring down the white Imperialists" is criminal folly. But it is not insanity. That no country has developed and become an advanced industrial country since World War I, more than fifty years ago, is, therefore, a central social and political problem of the world economy. It is also (as said earlier) the greatest contrast between the fifty years before World War I and the years since. Between 1860 and 1910 a new major industrial nation emerged every twenty years or so. This created confidence throughout the world that economic development would indeed happen, to the point where nobody thought it necessary to have a "theory of economic development" or even to think much about it. It could be taken for granted. But for fifty years now it has not happened. Unless we make it happenand in enough places to show that development is not a matter of race but of the right policies and effortswe face a specter much grimmer than that of the class war that haunted the nineteenth century and the opening years of the twentieth century. We face the specter of international race war. This, needless to say, is above all a threat to the rich. The poor, colored nations have little to lose. The United States and Russia have the most to lose. The Japanese would, in such a race war, be caught in a hopeless dilemma between allegiance to a white world, to which they belong by reason of their economic and social stature, and allegiance to a nonwhite world, to which they belong by reason of their culture, tradition, and skin colorwithout being able to feel at home in either. Our own history proves that such a race war need not happen. The international scene today greatly resembles the domestic situation in the advanced industrial societies of the North Atlantic in 1870 or 1880. Then, too, large economic communities had suddenly been

created out of what had been scattered, isolated, largely self-contained units. Then, too, one grouplarge enough to be very visible but still only a minoritywas getting rich fast while the majority seemed to be getting poorer and poorer. There were few intelligent or thoughtful people in the United States, England, or Germany of those days who did not know that the tension was becoming unbearable between the tremendous wealth, which the application of technology gave to a few, and the destitution of the many poor. The class war haunted not only the Marxists. It haunted Henry James (who in 1886 wrote a first-rate "proletarian" novel, The Princess Casamassima, which is almost apocalyptic in its vision of the inevitable social catastrophe). It haunted J. P. Morgan, the banker, and Henry Adams, the historian, E. M. Forster, Ibsen, Gerhart Hauptmann, and Zola. To believe in 1880 that there could be a way out short of social cataclysm took either great courage or sublime smugness. What this way might be even the optimists could not have foretold. Yet when Marx died in 1883, the leadership of the working class in the Western world had already been lost by the revolutionariesto the Fabians in England, to Gompers in America, and to the Revisionists in Germany. A decade later Friedrich Engels, in writing a new foreword to Marx's little classic The Conditions of the Working Classes in England, had to admit that the poor were at least no longer getting poorer and that the Marxist "inevitable revolution" had been delayed indefinitely. Another twenty years later, by the time of World War I, Marxism in the developed countries had lost its dynamism. It had become an opposition within the system rather than the "wave of the future." That no developed country underwent a Communist revolution despite economic collapse after two world wars, and despite an unprecedented worldwide depression, few people in Marx's own lifetime would have considered possible. But while Marxism has been overcome by our success in making the poor within the developed communities steadily richer, Mao has taken the place of Marx on the world stage. That Mao is "unscientific" matters as little as that Marx could easily be confuted by any economist of the nineteenth century. What matters in Mao, as it

mattered in Marx, is the vision. What matters, above all, is the hatred. Almost twenty years ago President Truman proclaimed the goal of economic development for the poor nations in his Point Four Program. There have been rather impressive results. Indeed, measured quantitatively, economic growth has been a good deal greater than even the optimists of 1950 would have dared predict. Industrial production has been growing very fast indeed in a good many parts of the underdeveloped world, South America especially. The urban areas of Latin Americaa larger market in population, as well as in purchasing power, than Italyare no longer underdeveloped. They are still poor but they are growing vigorously. Major economies in Latin America, not only industrial Brazil but Mexico and the main cities of Colombia, may be close to, if not at, the "take-off" point and ready for rapid, self-propelled growth. The Latins themselves now say: "Latin America is no longer underdeveloped. It is simply badly managed." The three non-Communist Chinese countries also, as said before, have shown amazing capacity to grow. Similarly, there is within the vast mass of poverty that is India a sizable modern economy, comprising 10 per cent or more of the Indian population, or 50 million people. Pakistan too has been growing fast, and so has Iran. Most encouraging is perhaps that agricultural production and productivity are suddenly jumping ahead, just when everyone had given up hope that world hunger could be averted. Food production in the underdeveloped nations has been growing faster than we projected in 1950 everywhere except on the West Coast of Latin America and in Argentina. But as everyone knows, population growth has been so fast that food output per capita through the early sixties barely stayed even, and in drought years, in India for instance, it dipped dangerously below the subsistence level. In the late sixties, however, there has been a changethe combined result of new seeds and varieties, more fertilizer, and of better farm marketing resulting from modest incentives to the farmer. A 4 per cent rise in food production and an even faster rise in

yields per acre, such as has been reported for the decade of the sixties, is actually unprecedentedly high in human history. If maintained, it could double food output by 1985 in large parts of the world. The advancesespecially the rapid spread of new and greatly more productive varieties of rice and wheat in Southeast Asia and Indiahave made some conservative and even skeptical observers optimistic for the first time. Lester R. Brown, the international expert of the United States Department of Agriculture and the man most responsible for the earlier forecasts of worldwide famine by 1970to the point where his pessimism all but discredited him among farming expertssaid at the Second International Conference on the War on Hunger, held in Washington in the winter of 1968: "We may be on the threshold of an agricultural revolution in many of the hungry, densely populated countries of the less developed world, particularly in Asia. Further we are witnessing some advances in food technology which, if commercially feasible, can make quality diets available to millions at much lower costs." Brown went on to hold out the prospect that by 1975 the poor nations in the Free Worldand this would, of course, include Indiawould have an adequate diet for everybody (with the West Coast of South America the one remaining deficit area). One could go on citing statistics to prove that the last twenty years have validated our development policies, and that the popular disappointment that is so much in evidence reflects ignorance of what has been achieved. Per capita income, it could be argued, would have gone up even faster than we expected twenty years ago but for the "population explosion." Latin America, it could further be said, has undergone, since 1956, the most severe and most prolonged depression in its entire history and has yet shown continued capacity to develop and to grow. One might say that popular expectations both in the developed and in the developing countries were simply not realistic. It was foolish to expect a transformation of the entire world in a decade or two, though this is what President Truman's Point Four Program and later President Kennedy's slogan of the "Decade of Development" meant to a good many people. There has been, one might argue, no failure of development. There has been only a failure of the

nerve to continue to work at development at the required level and with the required effortjust when our development efforts are really paying off. All these arguments would be true. Yet the public would remain unconvinced. And the public would be right. Development, as President Truman conceived it and as we envisaged it these last twenty years, has been a failure. It has failed to produce the one essential result: the example of a new major growth economy. Development aid has resulted in the production of a lot of goods and a lot of jobs. But it has, so far, failed to generate the new vision. The economic results are considerable. The political and moral results, so far, are insufficient. The demands of economic development are more exacting than we believed when President Truman announced his Point Four Program twenty years ago. Above all, we need intelligence much more than moneyand intelligence is a great deal scarcer. What Will Not Work We now understand that development can no longer be financed by agriculture, as it was in the nineteenth century. We understand that it therefore can no longer be "automatic." We understand even that to provide investment capital from abroad on a planned and directed basis will notas it did in the nineteenth centuryautomatically produce development. And we understand the severe limitations on the effectiveness of foreign aid, and of government action altogether. 1. In the nineteenth century, agriculture in the settled countries was touched by technology only at the margin. A new industrial civilization came into being next to the old community and economy of agriculture, but largely outside of and separate from them. The countrysides I knew when I grew upthe English counties and the villages of Austria, Switzerland, and Northern Italystill lived in their traditional culture and civilization, and altogether in their traditional world, as late as the 1920's. To be sure, they had a good many new tools such as the railroads or electricity. But these had little impact on their way of life, on their view of themselves, on their social, political, or

intellectual vision. They had had only limited impact on their economy. The smoky city was just over the horizon. But it had not yet impinged on what was essentially a pre-industrial world. And this was even more true of France and Scandinavia. At the same time, the food needs of the nineteenth-century "population explosion," in the countries that were "developing" countries then, were satisfied by crops from new virgin lands, crops from soil that had never before been put to the plow. Eastern Germany, Hungary, Western Russia, the Ukraine, and Rumania became overnight major grain producers and exporters where they had earlier been wastes or at best grazing lands. Above all, there were America, Argentina, Canada, and Australia, the new "bread baskets," without which the exploding populations of the new industrial cities of Europe and of America's Eastern Seaboard would have starved. Agriculture in these countries was not "advanced" technologically. Nor did it need to be. It took into cultivation new lands, where anything produced was so much increment, so much surplus. As a result the population explosion of the nineteenth century was economic opportunity rather than threat. Population in the industrializing countries, that is, in Europe, in North America, and finally in Japan, grew almost as rapidly as it is growing now in the developing countries. But instead of putting pressure on the food base of the economy, it created markets for the agriculture of the new "bread baskets." Because agriculture in the developed countries of the nineteenth century was itself undeveloped, the new countries, whether in Central and Eastern Europe or overseas in the Americas and in the Pacific, could finance their development by farm exports from their new soils. They financed themselves largely by exchanging the products of a technologically pre-industrial agriculture on new land against the manufactured products of the new industries in the old countries. In this way they not only obtained the manufactured goods for their own population, they also financed their capital imports. The United States obtained more capital between 1870 and 1890 to build transcontinental railroads than all the money (adjusted for changes

in purchasing power) the United States has spent in aid to developing countries in the last twenty years. Not a penny of it was ever paid back. The American railroads defaulted on their bonds and wrote off their shares. The money was, however, given against ample security: the new fertile soil the railroads were opening to settlement. Europe was repaid by the cheap food it received to feed her urban masses. And the loans to Russia until 1900 (after which they became political and military subsidies) equally reaped ample returns in the form of abundant cheap export crops for the urban masses of industrial Europe. The Japanese pattern of development was only slightly different. * Though Japan had no new land to place under the plow, her development was financed by the exports of silk. While a very old crop, silk had always been an unattainable luxury except for the very rich. Japanese exports made silk available for the first time to the middle class in the industrial countries of the West. Silk exports, in turn, gave Japan the foreign exchange to import machinery and manufactured products from the West. But while the Japanese farmer thus paid for the modernization of his country, he remained largely untouched by it himself. Until World War II, the Japanese village was pre-industrial in its economy as well as in its culture, and largely in its standard of living. It is no longer possible, however, to finance development out of agriculture. It is equally impossible any longer to keep the village out of modern society and insulated from modern technology. Today agriculture in the developed countries (excepting only Russia) has become the most technologically advanced and the most industrialized of basic industries. Productivity differentials in agriculture between developed and underdeveloped economies far outrun the differentials in manufacturing. We expect a new steel mill in an underdeveloped country to be one-third to one-half as productive as a steel mill in the old industrial areas of Europewhether productivity is measured by hour of labor, or by dollar of capital. But we are not surprised to see productivity differentials of 10 to 1 or even 25 to 1 between the agricultures of the developed, highly industrial countries and the agricultures of the underdeveloped countries. * As has been shown in James L. Nakamura: Agricultural Production and Economic Development of Japan 18731922 (Princeton University Press, 1966).

Fifty years or so ago, rice yields per acre in China, and even in India, were higher than those in the West. Today the yield per acre of irrigated rice in California is ten times (or more) that of similar land in China. China, in turn, produces three times as much rice on the same irrigated acre as does Indonesiaand at least twice as much rice as well-managed and well-watered farms in India. No matter how low the incomes of the farmers in Indonesia or India, they cannot possibly be low enough to enable them to compete with the Californians. They can barely compete with the Japanese, despite the high costs of growing rice on the steep hillsides of the narrow Japanese valleys. Equally important: agriculture can no longer be insulated socially or technologically. In the nineteenth century it was possible, so to speak, to make "one revolution at a time." The cities changed drastically. But the rural areas remained largely unchanged. Indeed Marx considered them incapable of change. Today the countryside is the sector most violently affected by technological change and least capable of absorbing it. This is, of course, the underlying fact in the radical revision of Marx by Mao and Castro, with their scorn for the urban masses and their reliance on the "revolutionary elite" on the farm. Modern technology, the automobile and the truck, the transistor radio and the loudspeaker, as well as electric power, integrate rural society into city society. They abolish rural society as such, dissolve it into a poor and underprivileged component of an urban world. A hundred years ago the city was the exception and society was essentially the countryside. Today rural society rarely exists any more and can only be defined by whatever city blessings it does not enjoy. Raúl Prebisch, the brilliant Argentinian economist who has become the spokesman for the poor countries at international economic conferences, is right in his constant demand that the rich countries grant the agricultural products of the underdeveloped countries free access to their markets. The agricultural protectionism of the developed countries (with the United States one of the worst actors) is a scandal. But abolishing the barriers to the entry of farm products from the poor countries to the markets of the developed Western nations

would probably not make enough difference. In the nineteenth century the then developed areas of the West could not have survived without steadily increasing food imports. The agitation against the English Corn Laws and in favor of free trade in food was not meant to help foreign growers. Its purpose was to save the English industrial masses from starvation. Today most of the industrial countries have become food-surplus producers. Even Great Britain might well become tomorrow a large food producer, raising all the meat, butter, eggs, and cheese her own population could possibly consume, and still having enough left over to convert the deficit in the English balance of trade into a sizable surplus. If she were to join the Common Market and stop the near-monopoly on access to the British consumer, which she has granted to the farmers of the "White Dominions" (especially those of Australia and New Zealand), a rapid upswing in British farm productionespecially in meat and dairy productscould ensue. This is, of course, one reason why General de Gaulle, beset by unsalable farm surpluses in France, is not eager to have Britain come into the Common Market. Under these conditions, agriculture in the poor countries simply cannot compete, no matter how low the income of their farmers. Where agriculture provided the investment capital for industry in the nineteenth centuryand still did in Stalin's Russiatoday it requires very large capital investments of its own. "Forty acres and a mule" no longer make a productive farmer. They make a rural pauper. The fundamental agricultural equation on which nineteenth-century development was based no longer balances out. 2. Capital investment from abroad is, therefore, no longer the answer to development. In fact, heavy capital investment from abroad may become a barrier to development rather than the spur many still consider it to be. The nineteenth century, as the example of the American railroads illustrates, invested a great deal more capital abroad, and especially in development areas, than we have invested in aid since World War II. Indeed, although international trade has been growing fast and is at a higher level than it was in the nineteenth centuryboth absolutely and in relation to total productioncapital investment lags far

behind. The American investments in multinational corporations, large though they have been, represent a much smaller fraction of United States national income than did the European investments in American railroads a century ago. But the nineteenth-century capital investment was investment "abroad" only in a geographic sense. Most of it went into productive facilities that were an extension of the lender's domestic economy. Most of it, whether put into harbors or railroads or mines, served to produce food and raw materials for the lender's industrial centers in the developed areas. In financial terms this meant that the foreign investor was being repaid out of what his own countrymen paid for the grain, the cotton, or the copper whose supply his investment had made possible. There was no "transfer problem." The investment liquidated itself. To service it financially, whether in the form of interest payments, through dividends, or through amortization of the capital, did not entail withdrawal of currency from the debtor country. Such investment is by no means unknown today. Most of the billions invested in petroleum production around the world are being serviced out of the moneys paid by the userswho, of course, are the developed industrial countries. This applies also to capital invested in copper mines in Chile or in Rhodesia or to the very large amounts now being invested in iron ore or in bauxite in Australia. But the bulk of development investment today is of a different kind. It aims at creating capacity to produce for the domestic markets of the country in which the investment is made. It does not, in other words, generate the exports out of which the investment can be repaid. This is, above all, a consequence of the change in the position of agriculture, which makes it impossible for the farmers of the poor countries to compete in the markets of the developed countries, and unnecessary for the developed countries to buy from the underdeveloped ones. In fact, the food needs of the underdeveloped countries are so great that any increase in production would have to go first toward feeding their own masses, even if the developed countries could still use large food imports.

Investment of capital in the developing countries, other than in extractive industries, therefore, tends to create a foreign-exchange liability that is not offset, as it was a hundred years ago, by foreign-exchange earnings created by the investment. In short order the investment thus begins to create a demand for foreign exchange to service it and begins to exert pressure on an already feeble balance of payment. The investment may generate wealth in the debtor country and create jobs. But it also threatens to drain away capital and to create ''disinvestment." At the least, it requires a steady new inflow of capital from abroad to prevent a shrinkage of the capital base of the economy. This has been painfully demonstrated in Latin America. It explains in large measure why the last ten years have been years of trouble there. Latin America, through the mid-fifties, attracted almost as much capital as her development economists wanted. As a result, Latin America grew very fast during that period. But when the inflow diminished a little, crisis immediately set in. Payments on the loans and dividends remitted abroad began to use up whatever foreign exchange was available. If a country suspended payments abroad to counteract this, its credit promptly disappeared and with it foreign capital altogether. If, on the other hand, a country maintained its foreign payments to maintain its credit, its growth came to an end as its capital base shrank, thus creating a deflationary crisis. This too brought to an end the influx of foreign capital. It has been argued many times in the last twenty years that we should organize systematic capital investment in the underdeveloped countries, in such a way as to replace the automatic flow of investments of the nineteenth century. But this, while plausible, cannot work. We could, of course, provide investmentfor a while. But even if heavily subsidizedthrough artificially low interest rates guaranteed by the rich countries, for instanceservicing large foreign investment, whether given as loans or in the form of equity, would not be possible. Of course, the underdeveloped countries need capital badly. But they cannot depend on getting it abroad. Nor can the investor abroad be expected to invest heavily in underdeveloped areas. Again the nineteenth-century equations no longer balance out. Development in the nineteenth century was possible because agri-

culture, even in the most highly developed country, remained underdeveloped. The moment agriculture became a leading industry itself, the system ceased working. To most nineteenth-century economists, and to many economists today, the mechanism of "complementary trade"a kind of economic perpetual-motion machineappeared "natural" and permanent. Economic development, it seemed, would follow automatically if only trade were allowed to take its natural and inevitable course. We need all the trade we can get. In that respect Raúl Prebisch is right and deserves to be listened to for the sake of the developed countries as well as for that of the underdeveloped world. We also need capital investment, and more than we have had in the last ten years. But we can no longer depend on either as the motive power of economic development. All it can be is the catalyst. 3. But if "trade not aid," however beguiling, is an unrealistic slogan, "aid" alone will also not do the job of economic development. Whenever we face a problem of poverty, whether domestic or international, our first impulse is to solve it through distributing wealth. Unfortunately, there is not enough wealth around to get us anything except disillusionment. John Pincus of the RAND Corporation has recently * computed how much it would take to tackle the world's poverty problems through distributing the wealth of the rich nations. To raise per capita income everywhere to $1,000 a yearstill less than one-third the United States figurewould require $1.4 thousand billion a year, that is, more than the total annual income of all the developed countries and almost 200 times what we have ever spent on aid in any one year. Even to raise the income of the poor nations to that of the richest among them, e.g., Northern Spain, Formosa, or Chile, we would have to distribute each year more than the total United States national income. Distributing wealth may be good social justice, but it has always been absurd economics. Aid, in other words, can only be a stimulant. The main growth has to come out of the resources of the poor countries themselves. Effec- * In the Fall, 1967, issue of Columbia University's Journal of World Business.

tive aid acts as a catalyst releasing local energies. But aid, unless carefully planned and ruthlessly administered, may also tend to inhibit the energies of the recipient rather than release them. This has become apparent in our surplus-food aid, which, so very well intentioned, is actually causing development failure. The United States by giving away its own food surpluses to feed the poor of the developing countries has often aggravated their agricultural stagnation. It has encouraged politics that cut back rather than improve food production at home (such as nationalizing the grain trade in India). It has led to gross misallocation of resources, as recipient countriesand India is only one examplefelt free to invest in politically palatable but economically dubious prestige projectssteel mills, typically, or jet planesrather than in agriculture. We need to maintain famine relief of starving people; indeed we need to create a "World Food Bank" for this purpose. But beyond relief for people actually threatened with starvation, food relief should be given only sparingly. It destroys the incentive of the local farmer to increase his output; and there is no incentive to which farmers respond as fast and as reliably as a higher cash income. The "aid programs" that have worked give the farmer new hybrid seed which greatly increases his yields and his income. Such aid will generate development. We have had good results with aid programs in such countries as South Korea and Formosa. In both places there was a "temporary emergency." In Korea, a poor but industrious population was overcome by the disaster of the invasion from North Korea and of the ensuing war. Here aid restored a capacity that had been there before. Similarly, in Formosa, highly skilled, highly industrious, and proud Chinese refugees needed a helping hand to get going again. The Chinese who crossed over to Formosa from the mainland were, by and large, the best trained and the most successful Chinese of their generation, as were the ones who fled from Shanghai to Hong Kong. These two groups contained some two-thirds perhaps of all modern knowledge, technical, economic, and social, China had been able to amass in the first fifty years of the century. No wonder that aid succeeded in sparking rapid development in Formosa.

But where aid is used to substitute for local energies, it rarely works. The "depressed areas" of England and Scotland have soaked up as much aid as was ever put into any "underdeveloped country" overseas. Yet thirty years of subsidies later they are still as "depressed" as ever. And so is Appalachia in America's mid-continent, or Italy's "Mezzogiorno" in the South. The revival of New England did not occur in the old textile towns on which aid had been lavished. It came out of the universities which, without any ''aid," spawned the new "science industries." Aid, by its very nature, will flow toward problems rather than toward opportunities. It will go where the needs are greatest rather than where the results are. It will, therefore, tend to createor, at least, to perpetuatedependence. This is true of aid at home fully as much as of aid abroad. It has dawned on us lately that the social worker in the big cities often causes the very misery she works so hard to relieve. She causes dependence. Her clients are treated as "relief cases" andunintentionallyprevented from even attempting to get back on their own feet, indeed often penalized if they try (by termination of relief payments, for instance). "Philanthropy," the early nineteenth century learned, harms the self-respecting poor." * Reliance on aid also encourages diversion of scarce resources to the wrong projects whose development impact is minimal. In any aid program, the economist, especially the development economist employed by government, tends to impose his own values on the choice of priorities and projects. Understandably he likes things that look big, impressive, and "advanced": a petrochemical * The basic work on this is Karl Polanyi's The Great Transformation (New York: Beacon Press, 1957), which deals with the failure of the charity programs of the early industrial revolution to aid the uprooted poor of England's pre-industrial rural society. A good many of the aid programs we have tried in the pre-industrial rural society of the poor nationsincluding the pre-industrial Negro society in America's twentieth-century citieswere quite similar to England's abortive Spenhamland system of "development aid" in the early 1800's.

plant, for instance. He likes the things he knows the poor "ought" to have. He has nothing but contempt for the "frivolous," e.g., small luxuries. In this respect there is amazingly little difference between the Russian planners and the economists in the governments of the most "capitalist" nation. The factory girl or the salesgirl in Lima or Bombay (or the Harlem ghetto) wants a lipstick. She lives in a horrible slum and knows perfectly well that she cannot, in her lifetime, afford the kind of house she would like to live inthe kind of house her counterpart in the rich countries (or the white suburbs) can afford. She knows perfectly well that neither she nor her brothers can get the kind of education they would like to have. She probably knows perfectly well thatif luckyshe will marry some boy as poor as herself and as little educated who, within a few years, will start beating her out of sheer despair. But at least she can, for a few short years, try to look like the kind of human being she wants to be, respects, and knows she ought to be. There is no purchase that gives her as much true value for a few cents as cheap cosmetics. A cosmetics plant gives more employment per dollar of investment than a petrochemical plant. It trains more people capable of developing and running a modern economy. It generates managers, technicians, and salesmen. Yet the economist despises it. And the reliance on aid makes it possible for his moralism to prevail over economics and for his desire for control to prevent development. We need aid. We need it not only for the relief of the victims of catastrophe, such as famine, earthquake, or pestilence. We need it to prevent collapse in areas such as the Brazilian northeast or the black ghetto of the American city, where centuries of injustice have created frustration, hate, and the habit of defeat. And because the world is one community, we need aid from the rich for the poor and suffering wherever either may be. But philanthropy is, so to speak, only "first aid" to be administered "till the doctor comes." Only for the completely healthy or for those bound to die anyhow is first aid as good as what the doctor can do. To believe that aid can, or should be, the carrier of development means, in effect, condemning the poor countries to no development at all.

We did not, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, overcome class war by philanthropy. The liberals then were as ineffectual in solving the nineteenth-century problem of poverty as the liberals now have been ineffectual in solving the problems of the black ghettos of America's cities. The settlement houses, whether Toynbee's in London or Jane Addams' in Chicago, gave a new conscience to a whole generation of the rich. But they had practically no impact on the poor. What overcame class war was, first, new technology: electric power, above all. This new technology created new, more productive, and therefore better-paid jobs. Secondly, the class war was overcome by education, which gave an increasing number of the children of the poor the opportunity to break out of the "class" to which Marxist ideology had condemned them. But above all, what overcame the class war was Frederick Taylor's Scientific Management, which first applied knowledge to work and thereby made the laborer productive for the first time. We achieved whatever success we had through making the poor productive. The test for aid to poor nations is therefore whether it makes them capable of being productive. If it fails to do so, it is likely to make them even poorer in thenot so verylong run. To be sure, development requires substantial amounts of money both in aid and in investment. But to succeed, these must come as support to effective and going efforts of the local community. Aid, for instance, might be in the form of matching grants conditional upon the organization of local efforts by the recipient. Investment might be geared to a country's rate of development. We must favor nations that have proved their ability to build if times are propitious. Examples would be Brazil, Colombia, Iran, and Pakistan. At the same time, we need to be able to say to other areas: "Prove your willingness to develop and then we will help you. So far, you have wasted opportunity." An example is Argentina, which for the last fifty years has wasted substance as if by malice aforethought, and turned herself from a highly developed and rich country into an underdeveloped and poor one. Another example might be Indonesia. No matter how serious a "problem" such countries are, we cannot afford to waste exceedingly scarce resources on them. Help in such a situation only makes things worse. But we also need to be able to go

to work where the projections of the economists did not predict development, but where, nonetheless, it is happening. The non-Communist Chinese communities are examples. This may sound very hard-boiledand it is. But the choice before us is between wasting aid (and investment) and obtaining real development from it. All aid can do is encourage and stimulate. We, therefore, had better use it to give us what we need the most: highly visible examples of rapid, self-generated growth. 4. We now know further that "intergovernmental programs" do not produce development. An economy cannot be developed from the outside anyhowbut least of all by "government-to-government" efforts, whether the foreign government be "democratic" or ''Communist." Foreign governments cannot impose priorities on other countries. They cannot, therefore, resist local pressures to divert scarce development resources, both of money and of men, into the unproductive, the nondevelopment projects. The example is United States "military aid" to South America. It has served mainly to feed the ego of generals and colonels. Yet military aid not only uses up scarce funds. An airplane or a destroyer is not much use unless fuel for it, lubricants, and spare parts are supplied year-in and year-out. Thus, every dollar spent on military aid for Latin America has not only taken away a dollar that should have gone into development, it has created a demand for an additional five or ten dollars to be diverted out of slender foreign exchange resources to maintain the general's toys. The Russians have been just as unable to resist the blackmail of the military. But development needs, above all, concentration on a few major priorities. Concentration is fundamental to any successful effort; yet no principle has been so consistently violated in the development efforts of the last twenty years. We have spent a fair amount of money. We have invested very substantial human energies of good, able, dedicated people. But we have wasted resources by spreading them out so thin that they could not have impact. We have taken, so to speak,

the flood waters of the Nile to irrigate the whole of the Sahara. As a result, the soil gets moist all overbut just when the first green shoots come up, the soil is parched again. This is elementary; but it will not be heeded if intergovernmental efforts are central to development policies. Altogether an intergovernmental program lacks the multiplier effect needed to produce development. It tends to favor immediate problems over results. Problems are political pressures. Problems are visible. Problems, above all, are clearly defined. Results, however, are tomorrow. They are risky. And no one has a vested interest yet in results. Governments must be problem oriented. For governments are, of necessity, protective institutions. But there is no development potential in problems. All one can do in taking care of a problem is to prevent collapse. One cannot build the new this way. Governments have to act as governments. They cannot subordinate other goals to the priorities of economic development. They must put other considerationsmilitary or politicalfirst. They must, therefore, misallocate development resources. This is a fancy way of saying that there are always noneconomic strings to a relationship between governments. The Russians, who see this quite clearly and make no bones about it, may actually be more realistic than the United States has been when it insists that all it is interested in is the rapid economic development of its foreign partners. Their realism has enabled the Russians to be highly selective and to give aid only to a few countries with a clear and open political rationale behind their program. Why Russia's aid has been concentrated on India, Egypt under Nasser, Cuba, and the Congo needs little explanation. None of it was meant to produce "development." Government is needed in a worldwide development policy. The governments of the developed countries must give direction to such a policy. Even more needed is effective, purposeful government in the poor countries. The ineffectiveness of government is indeed a central problem in most developing countries. Conversely, that Mexico has had effective government for thirty years has surely been a major factor in her rapid economic expansion. But there is one thing government cannot provide: the individual's sense of achievement.

Yet this is the essential element of development. What is needed in this world today is not primarily wealth. It is vision. It is the individual's conviction that there is opportunity, energy, purpose to his society, rather than problems, inertia, and hopelessness. If wealth were the one prerequisite, America's black ghettos would be no problem at all. Black Harlem is one of the world's wealthiest communitiesfifth or so in per capita income of all communities outside of North America and Europe, and easily the richest of all Negro communities in the world. Altogether three-fifths of all American Negro families are above the "poverty line." And what is considered "poverty" in the United Statesi.e., a family income below $3,500 a yearis considered great wealth almost everywhere else. What makes Harlem, and our other black ghettos, a slough of despond and a cesspool of hatred is the feeling of hopeless stagnation and impotent despair that pervades it. Development is thus largely a matter of the dynamics of individuals and of local community. These can be supplied only by our succeeding in generating local, responsible initiative and in multiplying human energies. Government can stimulate themor stifle them. But it cannot provide the energies. And What Might Work Earlier in this chapter, I said that everyone in the nineteenth century took economic development for granted. An exception is Japan. In Japan there was a famous debate, lasting two decades, over the conditions of economic development and the forces making for it. But the debate was not between economists. It was between practical entrepreneurs who founded and built businesses rather than textbook models of a development economy. The very names of Yataro Iwasaki (18341885) and Eiichi Shibusawa (18401931) are known outside of Japan only to a few specialists. Yet their achievements were a good deal more spectacular than those of Rothschild, Morgan, Krupp, or Rockefeller. Iwasaki founded and built the Mitsubishi group of industriesto this day the largest manufacturing complex in Japan and one of the world's largest and most successful business groups. Shibusawa founded and built more than 600 industrial companies during his ninety years of

life which extended well into the twentieth century. Between them, these two men founded something like two-thirds of Japan's enterprises in manufacturing and transportation. No other two men in any economy have had a similar impact. And for twenty years, till Iwasaki's early death at age fifty-one, these two men engaged in a public and often acrimonious debate. "Maximize profits," said Iwasaki. "Maximize talents," said Shibusawa. Today we know that both were right. For development we have to multiply the productivity of capital. We have to attract the available capital of an economy into growth opportunities. But for development we also have to multiply human resources. We have to attract the human energies of a society into growth opportunities. Wherever we have disregarded these lessonsas in most of the United States' governmental programs of the last twenty yearswe have failed to generate development. Both Iwasaki and Shibusawa worked for a strong and achieving, rather than for a rich, Japan. Both men knew that the essence of development is not to make the poor wealthy; it is to make the poor productive. For this, one needs to make productive the fundamental resources. One needs to multiply talent and capital. Japan was exceptional in the nineteenth century for more reasons than that she was the one nonwhite, non-Western country to become a modern economy. She was poorer than any of the white countriesprobably poorer than any of the developing countries of today (except perhaps Bolivia or Tibet). She was an old country and densely populated. She had silk to export and this paid for import of manufactured goods and industrial raw materials. But she did not have new land to take under cultivation. She could not therefore, as did the new countries outside of Western Europe, rely on imported capital. She could not have serviced such capital through exports of food or industrial raw materials. But what made Japan atypical for the nineteenth century makes her typical for today. For today we not only have to learn how to develop nonwhite, non-Western countries. We have to learn how to develop densely populated countries that cannot depend on expanding commodity exports to the developed world. We have to learn

how to develop countries that cannot depend on a large inflow of capital from abroad and would be unable to service it. We have to develop countries where the available capital must go into facilities that produce for the domesticor, at best, for a regionalmarket. All this Japan accomplished a hundred years ago. The model of development today has to be Japan rather than the United States or Russia or, indeed, any of the white countries. Japan accomplished development Iwasaki's way, that is, by attracting and mobilizing every penny of capital within the country. As a result, shortage of capital never impeded Japan's development, though she did not borrow abroad or depend on foreign investors. Japan also walked Shibusawa's way and attracted, trained, and mobilized every ounce of human energy. She put to work on growth opportunities all the talent a gifted people could muster. A well-known story about Shibusawa reports that he refused a loan for a badly needed sugar refinery because the company's promoter was not an educated man. The story is usually told to illustrate Shibusawa's prejudices; and, indeed, the sugar refinery, financed by somebody else, became eminently successful. But the story also illustrates the priority Shibusawa's Japan, throughout the entire period, gave to the formation of human capital. If Iwasaki's entrepreneurship gave Japan the highest rate of monetary capital formation ever recorded, Shibusawa's stress on the human energy gave Japan, within thirty years, the highest rates of human-capital formation and of literacy ever recorded. Shibusawa himself, for almost fifty years, acted as an unofficial and unpaid "management development center." He counseled and guided hundreds of young civil servants, businessmen, and executives. He was untiring in organizing training programs and management clubs, setting up all kinds of courses, seminars, discussion groups. And where Iwasaki left behind a large and highly profitable business concern, Shibusawa's monument is Hitotsubashi, Tokyo's famous economic university. Yet, the two men differed in their emphasis only. Iwasaki could not have succeeded had he not known how to find and develop large numbers of brilliant young men whom he formed into a worldwide

management team of the highest esprit de corps and competence. And Shibusawa's command post was the Dai-Ichi Bank which he built into one of the major financial institutions of the country. The economics of development rests on the twin pillars of developing people and multiplying capital. To get development both have to be organized. And there must be concentration on both. In brief, we need to organize the "contract growing" of money and the "contract growing" of people. 1. Of the two tasks, "contract growing" of money is actually old and familiar. To do the job the nineteenth century invented the venture banker. First conceived around 1820 by the French social philosopher Saint-Simon, the venture banker's task is to mobilize and multiply the financial resources of society and to switch them from less to more productive investments, that is, from yesterday to tomorrow. Where the Rothschilds had been pure money lenders, Saint-Simon's banker was to become the developer of his economy. Instead of making his profits out of scarcity and need as the money lender does, the venture banker was to make profits out of growth and newly created productive capacity. The venture bank, as first embodied around 1850 in the famous "Crédit Mobilier" of the Brothers Pereire in Paris, actually industrialized Continental Europe. The great banks of Europe, such as the Deutsche Bank which was founded in 1870 with the express purpose of converting Germany from a poor agricultural nation into the leading industrial power of Europe, were all set up as venture banks and created to multiply the productivity of capital. They were all founded to make development possible without large-scale import of capital from abroad. This was also the task J. P. Morgan set himself when he returned from London to his native America in the years after the Civil War. At the same time, in far-off Japan, and without benefit of European theory, Iwasaki, the former soldier, started similarly to "contract-grow" capital. Typically, the Mitsubishi empire he built was organized around a major venture bank. The one difference between those days and today is that we know much better now how to organize development banks. In fact, great

contributions to development have already been made by such banks. The World Bank and its affiliate, the International Finance Corporation, started to encourage such banks all over the world in the mid-fifties. These banks multiply the capital resources of the community. For every dollar of imported capital from abroad, they attract five additional dollars of domestic capital. Their own capital thus represents a multiplication by five of the imported dollars from abroad. Then, for every dollar they themselves invest in a venture out of their own capital, they raise another five dollars of investment capital from other sources in the community. By the time they have finished financing a venture, every dollar of imported capital should have triggered the investment of another twenty-five dollars of local capital. And then each of these twenty-five dollars should trigger an additional very large amount of indirect investment from local sourcesthe way every dollar invested in automobile manufacturing leads to the investment of many more dollars in tire plants, roads, motels, service stations, and so on. The success and profitability of a venture banker depend on his ability to mobilize other people's capital, and especially local capital. The venture banker's profit comes essentially from finding investment opportunities for other people's money. It is a commission, a brokerage fee, an underwriting fee, or a participation. The greater the multiplier impact of his own dollar, the greater his profit. Maximizing profits is, therefore, the right motto for the venture banker. It is a direct index of his social and economic contribution and usefulness. Iwasaki in Japan a hundred years ago considered himself as good a patriot and indeed as great an idealist as Shibusawa. The test of foreign aid or foreign investment in development, therefore, is not how much money has been invested, rather it is how much of other people's money the money from abroad has mobilized, and especially how much local money it has mobilized. The less money the development banker needs from abroad the better he does his job. Ideally, he knows "how to make bricks without straw," that is, how to find and attract local capital in large quantities without putting in any money of his own, let alone any money from abroad. He gets paidand paid handsomelyfor creating the opportunity

and the demand. He gets paid for knowledge and imagination. He gets paid for creating wealth rather than for possessing it. The development banks that the World Bank started in the last ten or fifteen years may have produced more development than all the aid programs together, even though the amount of money invested in them from foreign sources is negligible. But perhaps the best example of development banking is a totally private "contract grower," ADELA, an international investment company started in 1964 by some 150 leading banks and manufacturing companies of the developed countries as their vehicle for venture banking in, and the development of, Latin America. Within three short years ADELA had succeeded in getting some sixty enterprises, large and small, going in Latin America. By investing less than $30 million of its own money, it had mobilized almost half a billion of investment, most of it local. It had created at least 25,000 jobs. And it had mobilized for growth opportunities a very large number of entrepreneurs, managers, and technical people. There is now talk of an "Asian ADELA." To speak of a "lack" of capital is euphemism for mismanagement of capital. The capital is there. But it is kept where it should not beoften locked up in economically marginal land ownership as it was in eighteenth-century France and on today's West Coast of Latin America. Or it is not invested at allthe treasure of the Indians, from peasant to Maharajah, is an example. Or, it is employed productively but without any "multiplier" impact. One dollar does the work of one where it should do the work of one hundred. There is no society in the world that does not have enough capital. What is lacking is effective demand for capital, demand that would really utilize capital. What is needed is the systematic, organized multiplication of capital resources and their employment on opportunities. What is needed is the development banker. 2. Capital without people is sterile, whereas people can move mountains without capital. Development, therefore, requires rapid growth of human talents and their employment on opportunities. It requires leadership of a high order and also followers who can convert into reality the leader's vision.

We have no Shibusawa anywhere today. But what he did by himself a century ago we can do through organized efforts, through organized "contract growing" of people. In the fifties the American aid program invested a small sum, barely one million dollars, to form management associations and institutes throughout Latin America. This program was at first not very popular with the American government. It seemed so insignificant and needed so little money. And the Latin American governments pointed out, with good reason, that associations were one of the few things in abundant supply throughout the continent. Admittedly, management associations are unromantic. Nor did these do anything unusual. They held meetings, gave speeches and listened to them, ran courses, distributed literature, and so on. Surely nothing more prosaic can be imagined than yet another foreman's course or yet another lecture on quality control. Yet the impact can hardly be exaggerated. Coming at a time when a young generation in Latin America became conscious of the need to manage, it created competence, demands, and self-respect. This, and similar programs, are perhaps the only part of the "Alliance for Progress" that has been both "Alliance" and ''Progress." That Latin America has managed to move forward during the last ten years, despite almost crushing deflationary pressures, we owe largely to these programs for the development of human energies and vision. Out of this apparently insignificant support for management associations came, for instance, the upsurge of development in the Cauca Valley of Colombia, in and around the city of Cali. The young men who met in the courses of the new Colombian management association rapidly organized themselves to take responsibility for the local university, the Universidad del Valle. There they pushed a public health program which, for the first time in the whole region, is systematically training and organizing villagers for public health. They started a series of management coursesespecially courses for the top management people in which the most successful citizens of the area went to school (something almost unimaginable to an older generation of Latin Americans), and in which each of their businesses was examined, diagnosed, and prescribed

for by the whole group. Then they began to supply young and well-trained people to local governments, both in state and city. Cali is still poor; and unemployment is still too high. But out of the work at the Universidad del Valle have come at least 30,000 jobs in the last ten years. More important, out of it has come an entirely different leadershipfor the entire community and for all major community activities. Quite different is the approach taken by a small semiprivate group called the Development Advisory Service. Located at Harvard University and staffed mainly with Harvard economists, this small groupno more than 75works in small teams as senior advisers and civil servants to developing nations from Pakistan to Indonesia, and from Liberia to Venezuela. It decides itself what countries and projects to work on so that it will get the most results from its small staff. It insists that the host country put its own best people on these projects. And it aims in all its projects at creating human competence and vision throughout a whole area. There were never more than two dozen men from the Development Advisory Service in Pakistan, for instance. But largely through them, Pakistan industrial output during the last fifteen years has grown at the rate of 15 per cent a year or more, and farm output at better than 5 per cent a year. The most effective agent of rapid human development in the economy has been the multinational corporation as has been said in the last chapter. In fact we should base the activities of the multinational business in the developing countries less on capital investment and ownership control than on management. The multinational company should get paidand paid exceedingly wellfor developing both local business and local people. It might not be a bad idea to make a stake in ownership a reward for successfully developing human resources in the local communitythus both giving an incentive to the foreign company to speed the development of local nationals for leadership and making sure that they are truly prepared for responsibility for the business. And where the multinational corporation has been primarily in manufacturing, we need to channel its skills into agriculture. Farmers everywhere are highly receptive to monetary incentives.

The popular idea of the "conservative" farmer wedded to his traditional ways is not even caricature. No one is more willing to do something new than the farmer, provided he sees a clear gain. But the farmer in the poor countries cannot take much risk. He knows how close to starvation he lives. He knows that one crop failure or price drop for his harvest may mean total destruction for himself and his family: famine, forced selling of his daughters into prostitution, loss of what little land he has. And he knows also that he has little skill. What farmers have needed thereforeand what has proven successful wherever triedis the contract growing of the new crops, the improved seeds, the better breeds. This, however, requires the skills and resources of a major corporation. A food processor or food marketer works out the best way to grow the new crop or the new animal, provides the farmer with the necessary suppliesseeds, day-old chicks, feed, implements, fertilizer, and so onand with the instructions on how to use them. He then guarantees the farmer a definite income at the end of the growing season, regardless of drought, of animal diseases, of market price. For these are the risks the farmer in the poor countries cannot himself take. Most of the crops for canning in the United Statesmost of the tomatoes, for instance, or the cherriesare now contract grown. In the developing countries where farmers lack the necessary skills, the risks of "agribusiness"a term that is now becoming popular for the systematic application of management and entrepreneurship to agricultural developmenthave to be reinsured, obviously by government, at least for a few early years. But the risks are capable of being identified and defined. And except for weather in a few places, such as areas in India dependent on erratic monsoon rains, the risks are not particularly great (though greater than a private business, no matter how big, or a farm cooperative could take by itself at the start). Such contract growing, in which the cultivation of crops is being used to change the capacities, aspirations, competence, self-confidence, and performance of the farmerthat is, of the majority in the

poor nationsis perhaps the only way in which real progress can be made in the most dangerous areas of human erosion. Such an area is the Brazilian northeast. There a black proletariatthe descendants of the slaves on the sugar plantationsdoes not dare tackle a new crop or a new method of cultivation. Starvation is too close to take any risk. There are no skills, no knowledge, no training. The people are, therefore, forced to continue to live in total dependence on the plantation owner who, however, is himself impoverished today, ignorant, without capital, without equipment, without skill, without hope. Land reform, that old panacea of the liberals, is meaningless in such a situation. It is a threat rather than an incentive where the new owners of the land are not capable of venturing. But in general the idea underlying contract growing needs to be extended from growing crops to growing skills, self-confidence, and the capacity to achieve. It needs to be extended to contract-grow people. One promising approach is being worked out in one of our worst black ghettos, in Oakland, California. There a small local group first obtains definite jobs. It obtains a contract to service the electric typewriters at the university or the cars of the telephone company. Then it goes out and trains unemployable and unemployed young Negroes for those already existing jobs. This way it can both guarantee a job and demand high performance standards. A similar approach is taken by MIND, Inc., the learning subsidiary of a major food processor, Corn Products Company, with decades of experience in contract-growing crops. There is much more to development than economics. There are cultural and social institutions, for instance. It is still fashionable, especially among academicians, to believe that development requires the destruction of traditional society. If so, development cannot happenor only through bloody and disastrous convulsions. To be sure development will change a society and its traditions. But it must at the same time be based on existing social and cultural institutions and on existing values.

Again Japan offers an instructive example. Japan's Westernization, a hundred years ago, overturned within a few short years the rigid class structure under which for almost three hundred years no commoner could become a soldier (i.e., a samurai ), and no samurai (with rare exceptions) a noble. Japan became a country of great upward mobility. Iwasaki, for instance, had been a samurai. But Shibusawa came from the peasantry. And yet it was Shibusawa who, still quite young, was given one of the top positions in the new ruling group, the Ministry of Finance, only to leave of his own free will to become an entrepreneur. Yet Japan at the same time built her new institutions on the basis of the old tribal concepts of mutual loyalty and of "belonging." All modern institutions of Japanthe government agency, the university, the business enterpriseno matter how modern and "Western" their methods and how efficient their output, are hans, i.e., extended tribal families based on lifelong, indissoluble, mutual loyalty. And the Confucian ethic, with its demand for mutual loyalty, governed both Iwasaki and Shibusawa. Similarly, in India today economic development is dissolving age-old customs, e.g., the role of women or the physical separation of castes at work. But it is an old merchant caste that is forging ahead as the new entrepreneurs, as is also that traditional business group, the Parsis of Bombay. Hispanic America is replacing the "oligarchs" with a new middle class of humble origins. Yet the center of social change is the oldest institution of Spanish America, the university. University reform leads to social and political reform and to the emergence of new values. The problem of the traditional culture and values is, in other words, much subtler than most of us still think. Gunnar Myrdal, the Swedish economist and sociologist, in his recent study of Southeast Asia, Asian Drama, referred to earlier, asserts that development cannot occur unless there are first massive social and cultural reforms. But in the ten years during which Myrdal worked on his survey, major development did occur in Pakistan without prior social change. Rather development initiated social changes while at the same time reaffirming traditional social values and using them as an engine of development. There seems to be no way to decide in advance which

cultural traditions are "remnants of feudalism" and have to go and which are "cultural values" and have to be used. Indeed, even the most fundamental disagreement about development, that between the Marxists and the capitalists, is probably misunderstandingat least insofar as it concerns economics at all. Our experience would indicate that government control may be a transitory phase in development rather than either its essence or its denial. In the early stages of development government ownership may be essential. Only government commands the high-grade human resources needed. The army, in particular, is often the only educational institution in the nation. As development proceeds, however, government becomes less and less necessary. Moreover, it becomes less and less effective as other institutionsbusinesses, hospitals, universities, and so onbecome more complex. Who owns these institutions is much less important than who manages them and how. As they become more highly developed and more complex, the institutions increasingly require managerial autonomy as well as control by nongovernmental forces such as the market. (This is what underlies the much-publicized "new new economics" of the Communist countries of Europe.) Japan demonstrated this a century ago. Large-scale industry in Japan was started by government and as government enterprises. Within a few years, however, these enterprises outgrew the competence of the government bureaucracy. After 1880, that is, only a dozen years after the beginning of Westernization, they were sold off to private enterprise, primarily because the government lost too much money running them. And then theyand Japanreally started to grow. Whatever the political, social, and cultural problems and uncertainties, development still remains above all an economic process. Economic success does not by itself solve all problems. It creates many new ones. But it makes it much easier to live with problems and even to assuage themperhaps ultimately even to solve them. Development is no panacea. Indeed it is very dangerous. It is growth; and growth is never orderly. It is also change. And change in society and culture is dislocation. The period during which a society

takes off in sustained development is a most dangerous time. Economically speaking, development has become a success and an accomplished fact. But the leaders still act in terms of the traditional society rather than respond to the new reality. At this moment there is grave danger of social and political catastrophe. No country that has gone through the development process has been able so far to avoid this transition period and its dangers. England, the first country to develop, went through a period of near-revolution and social crisis in the generation after the Napoleonic Wars. The collapse into the First World Wara total collapse of leadership in the major continental countries France, Germany, Austria, and Russiaresulted in large measure from the inability of traditional ruling groups to understand the new social and economic reality that development had brought about. They could see the material, the technical achievements. But they failed to see that society had changed and that the new technology had changed the character of warfare and had destroyed forever the easy, short, and riskless "limited war" of the eighteenth century. Something similar happened in Japan after World War I, leading to a relapse into military dictatorship, which throughout Japan's earlier history had been the way out of major crises. In the United States, too, there was a time of danger. The moral and political malaise of the generation after the Civil War, the paralysis of the political will during that period, and the absence of leadership, represented a much more serious crisis than our historians have acknowledged. The racial crisis that threatens the nation today is in large measure the result of the abdication of political leadership during that post-bellum period. It permitted, indeed encouraged, the South to establish "white supremacy" over the liberated Negro. We had during the eighties the same violence and unrest in the industrial cities that England had undergone half a century earlier. We had, above all, the withdrawal of the traditional ruling groups of the country from political responsibility, of which Henry Adams was such a visible symbol. We had, in other words, a long period of steady decay, culminating in the election of 1896, in which collapse was just barely averted. Recovery did not begin until Theodore Roosevelt

reasserted political and moral leadership and led a new generation back to contact with reality. We can see the makings of such crises today wherever there has been development. In Brazil, for instance, the tremendous growth of the central area has made the nondevelopment of the northeast region increasingly unbearable and increasingly a threat to the country's social fabric. In India it is clear that economic development, limited though it has been, has made language into a problem that threatens the cohesion of the whole subcontinent. Even in France, as the events of the spring of 1968 showed, development into an economy of mass affluence created a severe crisis of thestill largely Napoleonicinstitutional structure. Development, in other words, is risky. But the alternative is infinitely riskier. At least we can direct, lead, control, and inspire development. The alternative we can barely even hope to survive. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; President Truman had true vision twenty years ago in his call for economic development. It is the central economic task of this age. But so far we have misunderstood it. We have believed that the task is to make the poor wealthy. We have to learn that the task is to make the poor productive. This requires the realization that development of the poor world is to the self-interest of the rich nations. It is not philanthropy. It is self-interest in the narrowest sense: the creation of profitable markets for the products of the rich industrial countries. It is also self-preservation. There is no greater threat to the prosperity and, indeed, to the survival of the rich than the threat of a race war of the poor two-thirds of mankind against the one-third that is productive, affluentand largely white.

7 Beyond the "New Economics" There are few areas where right action depends as much on right theory as it does in economics. Yet in few areas is accepted theory as inadequate to the demands of practice and policy or to what we actually know. The "new economics" is being advertised with great fanfare in every developed country. Americans, Englishmen, Germans, Frenchmen, and Japanese are being told that the economists have finally learned how to manage the economy. They can, we are being assured, prevent or at least cure depressions and can guarantee continuous growth and prosperity. As proof of this assertion the economists point to the record of the twenty years since the end of World War IIindeed a period of full employment, economic growth, and prosperity. There is only one thing wrong with this wonderful news: No two of the bottles labeled "new economics" have the same contents. The practices in each major country may be similar, but the theories underlying them are quite different and indeed incompatible. What is touted as panacea in one country is considered deadly poison next door. The United States has practiced since World War II a Keynesian eclecticism, with full employment as the announced goal and with budget deficits as the main tool. Great Britain has been all-out Keynesian, with

banking and credit policies, especially the discount rate, as the mainstay. But the Germans (who apparently never heard of Keynes) have been preaching the sound "liberal" economics of 1910, in which laissez faire is imposed on cartel-minded businessmen by an enlightened bureaucracy. The French have not even been that "modern." Their economic policies since World War II have been the purest mercantilism as laid down by Colbert, the great Minister of Finance of Louis XIV, well before 1700, a century before the "Anglo-Saxons'' discovered "economics." In France the bureaucracy is imposing tight cartels on business. The Japanese do not seem to have any economic theory at all. They swing back and forth from ultraconservative to ultraradical, all the time using whatever seems to work whenever the situation seems to call for it. Our experience with these various brands of new economics permits only one conclusion: a healthy and growing economy can stand a lot of economics, just as a healthy and growing boy can survive a lot of physic. There is actually not much evidence that the new economics really manages the economy. To be sure, we have not had a major worldwide depression during this period. But major depressions have always been quite rare, occurring no more often than every fifty years. Minor depressions, however, we have not, the record shows, been capable of preventing or of curing. Whether called "recessions," "rolling readjustments," "periods of consolidation" ("depression" having become a dirty word), these moderate fluctuations have been only a little less frequent during the last twenty years than since we first began to keep records a century and a half ago. While none of these recessions has degenerated into worldwide depression, not onewhether in the United States, in Japan, in France, or in any other of the developed countrieshas lasted much less than the 12 to 24 months reported in any economics textbook of 1910 as the normal duration of short-term swings. Of course, various remediesfor instance, the "Kennedy tax cut"were given the credit for recovery just as quite different remedies were given similar credit a hundred years ago. The record indicates, however, that the recession had in every case run its course anyway before the remedy began to take effect. One is reminded of the old saying that the common cold lasts fifteen days if you do nothing about it and a fortnight if you take medicine.

To be sure, we know how to cure pneumonia even though we do not know what to do about the common cold. It is, therefore, not impossible that we can indeed, as the new economics claims, prevent or assuage a major depression. However, wherever major economic problems have cropped up, they have not yielded to the new economics. We have had no success treating British economic stagnation, the American balance of payments problem, or even the purely local, though severe, problem of the Continental European coal mining industry and its long-term decline and depression. A cynic may well come to the conclusion that economic performance in the Western countries has been inversely proportionate to the number and prominence of economists in government service. The more economists and the more attention paid to them, he may conclude, the worse the economy performs. Certainly Britain and the United States, where economists are riding high, have grown the least in the postwar period. And Japan, which has done by far the best, has few economists in the government; the decisions are made by civil servants, and, in the oldest Japanese tradition, on what at any given moment is the balance of power between competing bureaucraciesthe Bank of Japan, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, and so on. Economic theory is in even worse shape on the other side of the Iron Curtain. There the crisis of the new economics has become overt and admitted. Unemployment has proved to be endemic and unmanageable in the European satellite countries (and, one gathers, in substantial areas in Russia as well). Planning became a near-fiasco as soon as extreme shortages disappeared, that is, as soon as the economy moved from the "temporary emergency" of a wartime, forced draft to the long-term "normal" of economic development. Then it became clear, almost at once, that Communist theory offers no economic criteria for the priorities in investment and disinvestment, that is, for the key economic decisions. The appropriate economic criterionnow increasingly applied by Communist economistsis quite incompatible with Marx and indeed with any genuine socialism. It is the productivity of capital. To accept this means accepting that profit fulfills a vital and irreplaceable economic function and that profitability is the one reliable economic yardstick of investment decisions. It means also that the

Labor Theory of Value, which claims labor as the source of all economic contribution and which underlies the whole of Marxism, has become untenable. This is gross heresy, though not quite as heretical as the acceptance of genuine uncertainty that it implies. Risk rather than cost becomes crucial. The market test rather than efficiency determines success. The more nearly, therefore, an industry behaves like a "capitalist" business, and optimizes profit, the more will it contribute to national income and economic growth. The Chinese, faced with these unpalatable conclusions, threw out economics and perhaps even the goal of economic growth. The sharp attack of Mao's "cultural revolution" on "economism," that is, on the expectation of economic betterment under communism, makes a great deal of bureaucratic sense. Otherwise, the political system of Communist control could not be maintained. That this is pure Confucius rather than Marx or Lenin need bother only Marxist theologians. But, of course, there is still need for economic policy and, therefore, for economic theory. When the Chinese recover the capacity for effective government, whether of the whole of their territory or of parts thereof, they will have to tackle again what they now spurn, namely; economic policy. Then they will have to admit that Communist economics is in insoluble crisis. Then they, too, will have to become "revisionists" one way or another. But the Chinese (and Castro) are certainly right in accusing the "revisionists" in the European Communist countriesin Moscow, Prague, Warsaw, Budapest, and, above all, in Belgradeboth of deserting Marx and of endangering the political basis of Communist society. That the European Communists nevertheless are all frantically engaged in economic reform is a measure of their economic desperation and of the depth of the crisis. The belief among Westerners that Communist economies are becoming "free enterprise" is naive. But the Communists are certainly finding their economic theories even less appropriate to their economic tasks than are those of the West. Paradoxically it is the advance of economics that is producing the crisis of economic theory. The modern economist is infinitely more knowledgeable and infinitely better prepared for his profession than

his predecessors were only a short generation ago. There has been a tremendous advance in his information and in his analytical tools. The modern economist in the developed countries has at his disposal a wealth of data such as his predecessor could not have dreamed of. Where the economist, as late as World War II, had to guess, the economist today can say, "I know." Even more impressive is the advance in the capacity to analyze events. Indeed modern economics quite rightly calls itself "economic analysis." Most of this advance has come within the last generation. It is hard for us today to realize that everyday terms such as "gross national product," or "balance of payments," were only coined thirty or forty years ago. The greatest economists of the past, down to and including Keynes, had to do their work without these conceptsnot to mention the figures that quantify them. The computer with its twin capacity for storing data and for manipulating large numbers of variables now makes it possible to use the figures and to put the tools to work. It makes it possible to test and verify hypotheses regarding the relationship between economic phenomena, where in the past we always had to rely on opinions and anecdotes. "Input-output analysis," for instance, shows the effects that a change in output in one sector, e.g., agriculture, will set off throughout the whole system. Economic analysis, thus supplied with information and equipped with a computer, is becoming a genuine "economic mechanics"just as the introduction of the first usable tool for data recording and data manipulation, the Arabic numeral, with its decimal point, led to the "celestial mechanics" of Kepler, Galileo, and Newton, and to modern physics. But as every book on the history of science stresses, Tycho Brahe, in the sixteenth century, was the first modern astronomer, rather than Kepler or Galileo, and the first systematically to observe the stars and to "record the facts." While Tycho amassed the facts, however, he was totally wrong about their meaning. Though perhaps the greatest astronomical observer in history and a "stellar analyst" of great acumen and prodigious industry, Tycho clung stoutly to the very theories his own observations showed increasingly to be inappropriate and inadequate. It took thirty years of hard work until Keplerhimself trained as Tycho's assistant, that is, as a "stellar analyst"could perceive the new theory.

Meanwhile, as long as the new facts were being interpreted by the old, wrong theory, their predictions regarding the behavior of stellar bodies were much less reliable and wider of the mark than those of Tycho's uninformed and unequippedand therefore much more modestpredecessors. For no ignorance is as great or nearly as dangerous as is precision imposed on misunderstanding or misapprehension. Economics is today in the position of astronomy in Tycho's time. The new analytical concepts and tools are giving us a tremendous volume of observations and facts. They make it impossible for us to be economic innocents any longer. They force us to have economic policies based on rational argument rather than on "feel." Yet our information and tools also make it daily more apparent that we lack adequate economic theory for effective policy. In crucial areas such as economic development, the world economy, or the "microeconomy" of business, markets, producers, and consumers, we hardly have anything yet that deserves to be called folklore, let alone theory. There is no question of our going back to classical economics (whether of the capitalist or the Marxist variety). The reasons that made us revise the economics of the nineteenth century are no less compelling today than they were in the early decades of this century when today's new economics was fashioned. We need instead to go beyond the new economics. And indeed just at the moment when the new economics seems triumphant in public print and public policy, the young and rising generation of economic scholars is beginning to leave it behind. The Assumptions of the Economist We have to advance well beyond the new economics with respect to · the basic assumptions of economic theory; · the scope of economic theory; and · the concerns of economic theory. There are several assumptions underlying economics today that are no longer tenable. The fact that most modern economists make them subconsciouslywhere the founding fathers of economics in the last

two centuries were acutely conscious of themmakes it all the more troublesome that these assumptions are no longer valid. 1. The first of the obsolete assumptions of economic theory is that of economic equilibrium. Economic theory assumes that the goal of economic policy is a balance. Full employment, to which the United States committed itself at the end of World War II, is such an equilibrium. It sees growth as needed only insofar as the labor force increases with the growing population. We have since learned that a stable equilibrium is not possible in economics. The only thing that can give full employment is dynamic disequilibrium. An economy is like a bicycle: it only has balance when it is moving. Growth is always unbalanced. Yet only a growing economy can be in equilibrium. But economic growth is hardly known to economic theory, least of all to the new economics. * If growth is admitted at all, it is treated as a disturbance outside the system. Prevailing economic theory is based on the assumption that an economy oscillates around the same perfect balancea balance in which there is neither inflation nor deflation, neither unemployment nor labor shortage, neither idle capital nor boom. The assumption is an economy that is briskly standing still. Qualitative structural change, such as growth and its dynamics, are as much beyond the ken of economics today as motion was beyond the capacity of mathematics before the differential calculus. Economic analysis in these last forty years has, for instance, done a great deal to clarify what we mean by "productivity" and to give us information on the growth of productivity. But our economic theories still assume everywhere that productivity is in fact given. Yet the crucial fact of modern economic lifeindeed the great economic change of the two centuries since the Industrial Revolutionis that productivity is the central variable and its increase the test of economic theory and economic policy. Our most sophisticated economic model today, the input-output model of a whole national economy, cannot embrace any change in * It should be said in all fairness that some of the new "new economists" (Walter Heller or Joseph Pechman, for instance, or Edward Denison) are conscious of this.

productivity at all. All it can do is to work out the consequences of an increase or decrease in production provided that technology and productivity remain unchanged. It cannot predict how a productivity change in a given industry or in a given economic sector will affect the rest of the economy or any other sector. It cannot show what would have to happen for such productivity changes to occur or at least to become possible. This is not because we lack data. It is the result of basic assumptions underlying the model itself. But growth is a necessary goal of a modern economy. Its absence in the poor countries is our greatest economic danger. The economists know this as well as anyone else, and the best among them spend a great deal of their time working on growth problems. Since, however, their own model excludes growth, they grope in the dark in everything that pertains to growth, try this and try that, and go by fads rather than by knowledge. This is as true of Communist as of free-world economics. Twenty years ago the Communists did believe that they had a theory of economic growth. The results since have demonstrated to every economist, including those in the Communist countries, that they were wrong. Marx was no more a growth economist than are the anti-Marxists among the equilibrium theoreticians. All one can say about Marxand it is high and deserved praiseis that he was way ahead of his time and understood that growth would become a central problem when the other economists of the nineteenth century were taking it for granted. The "non-Marxist alternative," which Professor Walt Rostow developed in his book The Stages of Economic Growth (1960), is, unfortunately, not the answer either. It is an important book: the first recognition by a prominent economist that we need a systematic theory of economic growth and the first attempt to apply to growth the tools of economic analysis. But the underlying assumption that a high rate of savings by itself both explains and produces growth has not been found valid. Absence of adequate savings makes growth impossible. But even abundant capital investment may produce no growth at all. Indeed capital formation and capital investment may well be the result of growth rather than, as Rostow postulated, its prerequisite.

One twentieth-century economist, the late Joseph Schumpeter (first of Austria and then of Harvard), pointed all this out sixty years ago, before World War I. He also developed the first approach to a theory of economic growth. He identified innovation as the cause of economic growth, and the entrepreneur as its agent. But since then almost no work has been done in the field. World War I ushered in the long period of economic continuity extending through World War II. During this period maintenance rather than growth was the central concern. This is, of course, the theme of Keynesian economics, which in turn was a reformulation of equilibrium economicsand a badly needed one. But Keynes's formulation was not the growth theory we need, nor was it intended as such. Indeed, in Keynesian economics there is a conflict between maintaining what we have and growth beyond it. If economic theory cannot overcome this conflict, it cannot overcome economic crisis. It is quite clear, to repeat, that we can only maintain equilibrium through a policy of growth. An economy that stands still, however "briskly," is an economy in decline, as the British example of the last twenty years has shown. A theory of growth will be both more radical and more conservative than the Keynesian revision of equilibrium theory. It would first require that economics become teleological, that is, that it start out with the goal in the future and work back to the present. Historically, economic theory has started out with the present arrangement of forces and projected from it. This assumes that the structure of the future is identical with the structure of the present. There is no room in such a projection for true change such as genuine innovation brings about. It can only admit a better allocation of already existing resources of all kinds, including the resource of knowledge. The theory we need will have to start out with the postulate that the theme of economic policy is genuine change in the wealth-producing capacity of the economic resources rather than their rearrangement. It will have to start out, in other words, with the postulate of innovation. This must shift the focus of economic theory from cost, where it has always been, to risk. This, in turn, leads to a re-evaluation of the nature, role, and function of profit.

In traditional economics, profit serves at best a marginal economic function. It is a measurement of the allocation of capital resources. If we assume no growth, profit is not even particularly important in this role. We then arrive, as the classic economists did, at a pseudo-psychological explanation for the existence of profits (though no psychologist has ever been able to find the so-called profit motive in nature). Profit, in all traditional economics, is, in other words, a moral rather than an economic category, and the attitude toward profit is ideological rather than economic. In traditional economics the only risk is lack of information about the past and present; and the aim of economic policy is to minimize risk. But the moment we assume growth, we assume uncertainty, that is, we assume that present resources are committed to genuine risk because they are committed to making a different and unknowable future. Thus the purpose of economic policy in a growth economy must be to enable the economy to take bigger but better risks. In growth economics, therefore, profit becomes the cost of uncertainty. It is no longer "surplus." Indeed we can formulate as a law of development economics that there is no profit at all (excepting only such profit as results from politically imposed monopolywhich, of course, is "tribute" rather than profit). There are only costs of the future. They cannot yet be measured, but they are as real, as tangible, and as certain as the costs of the past that our accounts record. Just as we ask with respect to the costs of the past whether there is enough revenue to cover them, we must ask with respect to the costs of the future whether there is enough revenue to cover them. The central question in respect to profits is whether they are high enough to allow the economy to take the risks it needs to take in order to grow. This holds true whether we stress capital accumulation or consumption in our theories of economic equilibriumthat is, regardless of the position we take with respect to the economics of today and yesterday. This view eliminates the "profit motive." It also eliminates profit as a "capitalist rake-off." The Communist economists today are quite right when they deny that their restoration of profit is a restoration of capitalism. What they have doneand rightly sois realize that profit is needed for an expanding economy regardless of political

beliefs or economic structure. This is surely not Marx; but it is also not Adam Smith. When we say that profits do not exist but that what we call profits are simply costs of the future that we cannot yet allocate, we are not saying anything about the way in which we distribute profits. It is clear that we need revenue to cover the risks of investing in growth. These revenues can only come out of current production, just as the revenues to cover the costs of doing business todaythe accountant's costscan only come out of current production. Current production is the only thing in the economy we can dispose of. It is the only "present." The rest is either memory or expectation. But it is also reasonably clear that we somehow must get these revenues into the right risks. They must be used to make the future rather than to defend the past. This argues for a capital market and against retention of profits in existing businesses (the arguments already made in Chapters 3 and 4). But it does not follow that the owners of capital necessarily should make the reinvestment decisionthat is, that they should control profits. Both in the Communist and in the free-world economies, there is considerable debate as to who should make these decisions. In the Communist economies the owner of capital is, of course, the state. Yet today's economic debate among Communist economists is largely over the extent to which the managers of a business rather than the political organsthat is, the ownersshould make the decisions with respect to investment of profit in future risks. In the free-world economies there is similarly an open debate. In the traditional view, the owner is entitled to maximum earnings, that is, to the full decision-making power. The other view holds that the owner is entitled only to the "cost of capital." This latter view underlies the policies of the so-called growth companies of the last few years. Indeed the old concept of "ownership" may no longer be very relevant. One reason is that knowledge rather than traditional "property" is the controlling resource today. But we can also today imagine an economy with autonomous markets for goods, labor, and capital in which businesses strive to optimize profits, but in which there is no "ownership of the means of production."

The American economy, in which fiduciaries such as mutual trusts or pension funds are the majority owners of the big businesses, knows, in effect, no ''private ownership." Ownership is "socialized"even though it has not been nationalized. Similarly, Yugoslav business is in the process of becoming "nonnational." Legal ownership is still vested in the government. But goods, labor, and capital are in a near-market economy. And profit optimization is an objective; profitabilityas in the "capitalist" Westdecides whether the enterprise can get capital or not. The differences are, of course, still very great. But profit and profitability play the same role, and ownership as such plays no role at all. While these are vitally important and emotionally highly charged issues, they are quite different from the old battle cry, "down with profit" and "down with the exploiter." Growth is not the one and only goal of an economy; but neither is equilibrium. We certainly can no longer leave growth out of the model of the economy. It is at least one important goal. It is most assuredly a reality whether present or absent. The moment, however, that we put growth into such a model, profit and its meaning change entirely. The answer to the cry of exploitation is no longer to get rid of the exploiters, but to create growth and productivity. The answer is to make the poor productiveand this requires risk, uncertainty, and profit. 2. Closely related to the assumption of equilibrium as the goal of the economy is the neglect of technology in our theory. Economists consider technological change something outside of the economy and an event they cannot deal with, a sort of uncontrollable and unpredictable catastrophe, like earthquake or pestilence. Technological change may explain why the forecasts of economists go awry with such disconcerting frequency. But the economists do not know how to anticipate it or how to explain it and are silent regarding its possible course or consequences. But unlike pestilence or earthquake, even unlike major war, technological change and innovation are primarily economic events. Their purpose is economic to begin with. They consist in a change in the deployment of economic resources and result in shifts in the allocation of resources. Their purpose as well as their test is economic performance. They are major economic events determining the pro-

ductivity of land, labor, and capital. For the economist to brush off such a central phenomenon as not truly part of his subject is like the mathematician's saying, "Number is outside of mathematics." We may never arrive at a theory of innovation in the sense that we can explain innovation in economic terms and anticipate it by economic analysis. For noneconomic factors, intellectual and perceptual, are crucial to innovation. But we should be able to understand how innovation affects an economy and what its economic consequences are likely to be. We should be able to judge with a high degree of probability whether a certain innovation is likely to produce major economic changes or whether it is "purely technical." We need, for instance, to be able to say how a certain innovation, e.g., installment buying or the introduction by Xerox of a machine for office reproduction and copying on a large scale, has affected the economy, or indeed whether it has affected the economy at all. To use the modern economist's terms, we need an "input-output model" that is sensitive to innovation and at least reports to us when and how innovation changes the relationship between sectors of the economy, between industries, and between factors of production. Without this information we are incapable of rational economic policy. Without it, we cannot know whether a given policy advances economic welfare or undermines it. Should the United States, for instance, defend its steel industry against foreign imports? That the United States steel industry needs to change its technology fast is reasonably clear. That innovation in the form of new processes is rapidly becoming available is also clear. But would protection of the domestic producers at a time of worldwide overcapacity speed socially and economically desirable innovation? Would it actually strengthen the steel industry, let alone the American economy? Or would it weaken both, even in the short run, by retarding the spread of needed innovation? No one today can answer this practical question. We do not have enough understanding of innovation as an economic process nor enough information about its economic impacts. Yet we need to

make such policy decisions all the time, to make them fast, and to make them with a reasonable chance of being right. For this we need a change in the traditional assumptions of economic theory that brings technology and innovation into the economist's field of vision so that he can go to work and study them. 3. Economic theory needs to be restructured on a brand-new postulate: knowledge creates productivity. Economic theory in its early days was much concerned with the question: "What creates economic value?" The traditional answer from Ricardo (around 1810) to Marx was "labor." It is still the answer given in Marxist economics. Insofar as the traditional answer implies that the economy is the work of man rather than of nature, it is undoubtedly correct. But it is also irrelevant. Insofar as it implies that one attribute of man is more important than any other, it is misdirection. That Marxist economists are stuck with this particular piece of theology is their bad luck. (One way or another, of course, practitioners in Communist countries manage to disregard their theory of value in their daily work, much as Catholic biologists are unhampered in their research in genetics by the fact that the dogma of the Virgin Birth is an article of their faith.) During the second half of the nineteenth century, it became increasingly apparent that this question was metaphysical rather than economic and that any "theory of value" based on it, regardless of the answer, inhibited economic understanding. It is therefore hardly even mentioned in modern textbooks. Instead we began to discuss the "factors of production"land, labor, and capital, to which later generations added management. But little can be done with these "factors" either. Today they are treated in actual economic work as elements of cost rather than as "factors of production." In other words, one has to pay for natural resources, for human work, and for capital (the last being the power to control today's resources and to apply them to future expectations). Within limits, one can substitute one of these resources for another. But the working economist today sees these "factors" as little more than limitations and restraints on production, which are overcome only at a price. And all factors are always available at a price.

Since Simon Kuznets began his pioneering work on the productivity of the American economy thirty years ago, economists increasingly have been focusing on the "factors of productivity" as the key to economic performance. As development, growth, and change are becoming the phenomena that economic theory has to explain and economic policy has to manage, the "factors of productivity" are becoming increasingly central. An economic theory that tries to explain and understand change and growth needs a postulate as to what causes productivity. Kuznets' work indicates strongly that new knowledge rather than capital (let alone labor) produces productivity. Kuznets' statistics thus bear out what Schumpeter postulated almost sixty years ago, shortly before World War I. Capital flows in response to greater opportunities created by the greater productivity of new knowledge, both of workers and of managers. This may seem obvious, but it is far from obvious to traditional economics. In fact, it is incompatible with most of it. Economic folklorethat is, the economics that customarily underlies discussions in the newspapers, in parliaments, and in Congressstill assumes, by and large, that advance occurs because labor somehow becomes more productive by working harder. Actually all economic advance in the last hundred years has meant shorter working hours and less physical effort. There has been no increase in the "productivity" of labor. We have been able to pay much more for labor of lesser productivity because knowledge has made the economy a good deal more productive. But there is not much more substance to the axiom of most employers' associations that capital is productive by itself. The old debate as to who is entitled to the fruits of increased productivity, capital or labor, can be answered simply: neither is "entitled" to anything. Neither can take credit for producing the fruits. The end result of increased productivity is to have more available for bothbut not because they "earned" it. The new industries and the technologies on which they are based are all founded on knowledgeand on knowledge altogether rather than on "science and technology." At the same time, knowledge has become the central expenditure and investment of a modern econ-

omy. Knowledge has become the economy's central resource. But knowledge as a factor of production or of productivity is still unknown to the economist. We need an economic theory that can relate economic results to knowledge input and economic input to knowledge results. We need a theory that can measure the effectiveness of knowledge but also the efficiency of "knowledge industries" and especially the efficiency of educationthat is, of the systematic production and distribution of knowledge. We need to be able to relate the knowledge capital needed to produce development, and perhaps also the form in which this knowledge capital is needede.g., whether the money available should be spent on making large numbers of children literate or on producing a small number of highly educated men in universities. And we need measurements of the economic return on knowledge investment and knowledge resources. We need such an economic theory for the policy decisions with respect to knowledge that confront us. These decisions will not be made, and should not be made, on economic rationale alone. In fact, one might well argue that the decisions themselves should always be made on noneconomic groundsthat is, in contemplation of moral, social, aesthetic, or ethical objectives and values. But each decision then entails an economic cost, and decisions made in ignorance of the economic cost are almost certain to turn out to be wrong decisionsthat is, decisions with results totally different from the expected ones. A good economist today knows that equilibrium economics is not enough. He may know that innovation is a recurrent qualitative change within the economic system. He may know that knowledge creates productivity and that the old "factors of production" are limitations on an economy rather than its driving forces. But as long as he does not have a theory based on these new assumptions, he is either going to disregard his knowledge and rely on the old theory, with its old assumptions leading to wrong conclusions, or he will discard his knowledge and depend upon hunch, experience, and "feel"which is, of course, what the gifted practitioners always do when their knowledge base proves treacherous. For effective economic policy, the economist needs new theory based on assumptions

appropriate to the economic reality we live in and to the economic tasks that face us. World Economics, International Economics, and the Macroeconomy The economic theory we have today centers in the domestic economy of a national statethe economist calls it the "macroeconomy." We have no theory of the world economy, nor do we have enough knowledge as to how world economy and domestic economy interact. Modern economic theory still assumes, in effect, a closed economy controlled from within by national, monetary, credit, and tax policies. In this respect the ultraconservatives in France differ no whit from their archenemies, the ultra-Keynesians in Cambridge, England, and in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Both see only the domestic economy and analyze only the domestic economy. The economy outside enters into their calculations only as a restraint, a qualification, an environment. An example of this narrowness is the debate over the "American domination" of European industry. President de Gaulle complains bitterly that America uses the dollars that its balance-of-payments deficit foists on the credulous Europeans to expropriate Europe and take over European industry. American policy makers, for their part, complain about the "outflow of dollars" to finance these acquisitions. But, in effect, both America and Europe have exchanged investment in local industry for multinational industry. There has been neither "takeover" nor "outflow." The dollars paid to Europeans for their share in European businesses have been offset, almost entirely, by Europeans investing in the American companies, which, in turn, invest in Europe. What is happening is the creation of multinational companies with shareholders on both continents, production and sales on both continents, and, increasingly, managers on both continents and nationals of Europe as well as of the United States. Had such a phenomenon occurred within a national economy (as indeed it did occur earlier in this century within the United States when the large companies with their access to the New York capital market expanded from regional into national businesses), everyone would at

once have recognized the circular nature of the flow of capital. Inflow and outflow are actually one stream. But when the flow crosses national boundaries, it moves beyond the model with which the economist works and which for him is "reality." This then explains why the measures taken to correct the American balance-of-payments deficit have had different results from those expected by both Americans and Europeans. The "voluntary" restrictions on American investment abroad that were imposed in 1965 were meant to slow American acquisitions in Europe. Instead they speeded them up. The flow of dollars from Europe to Europe via the American company was simply short-circuited. Instead of dollars flowing from Paris to New York and back to Paris, they were placed by the Europeans directly into the securities of newly created European subsidiaries of American companies, founded for the express purpose of buying up European businesses and thus bringing them under multinational management. In other words, the European to go multinational invests in American companies, and American businesses to go multinational use European acquisition. The exclusively domestic scope of the model means that economic policies with respect to the outside world are not capable of being formulated or of being carried through effectively. We simply do not know enough. Shortly before the American government imposed the first restraint on American investments abroad to reduce the deficit in our balance of payments in 1965, the U.S. Department of Commerce made a study (published in summary in the fall of 1966 in the Journal of World Business, published by Columbia University) which indicated that it is the American investment dollar abroad that creates the export markets for American goods abroad. Every dollar invested by a United States business generates within a very short period, perhaps two to five years, at least five dollars of American export abroad (plus, of course, a good many dollars of dividends). These figures implied that curtailing American investments abroad would result in a disproportionate drop in American exports and would, therefore, actually worsen our balance-of-payments problem. The development of the American balance of trade since the 1965 restriction has lived up to this prediction. Two years later the surplus in America's trade with Europe began to go down sharply, even though American prices in those two years had not risen nearly as fast as European prices.

But are the United States investment restrictions actually to blame? Investment restrictions are, of course, a traditional prescription to "cure" a balance-of-payments deficit. Has the cure now become a cause of the disease? No one knows. All we do know is that the American government based its policy on folklore rather than on knowledge. The same thing obviously applies also to the restrictions on American travel abroad which the U.S. government asked for early in 1968. No one knows the economic effect of this travel on the balance of payments. Much of the money is, of course, spent by businessmen rather than by tourists. Is business travel, then, the means by which the United States produces its exports and the dividend income on its foreign investments? In other words, is a dollar spent on travel a net expense and an outflow of dollars? Or is it the means by which we earn ten dollars of foreign exchangeand within what period of time? Would travel restrictions mean cutting off our nose to spite our face? Would they shut off a dollar drain or create one? To what extent also are a few hundred million dollars spent by business travelers abroad the foundation for the several billion dollars of purchases of American aircraft by foreign airlines? No one has any answer or any means of finding an answer. Yet, these are elementary questions. As these examples show, such ignorance is bound to lead to wrong action. Being ignorant of the connection between outflow of dollars to buy European businesses and inflow of dollars to buy United States securitiesor of the relationship between investment abroad and exportsthe economists, European as well as American, are bound to react so as to inflict harm on their own countries as well as on the world economy. It is the world economy today that defines the opportunities, the world economy from which effective economic policy has to take its cue. This is the lesson of the growth economies of the last twenty yearsJapan, Sweden, and the non-Communist Chinese countries. The United States and Western Europe, however, are kept from profiting by this lesson by the blinkers imposed on our vision by the macroeconomic scope of economic theory. The major economic threat to every nation is a crisis originating in

the world economy. This has been true for the last hundred years, since the panic of 1873. The Depression of 1929, to be sure, started in large measure with the collapse of a domestic stock-market boom in the United States. But it was the collapse of the international monetary system, jerry-built after World War Iand especially the devaluation of the British pound, caused in turn largely by a bank collapse in Austriathat converted a "normal" depression into the nightmare of total economic and monetary paralysis. If 1929 had been primarily domestic, President Hoover would have been right: the United States would have been well on its way to recovery by 1932. Similarly the crises of 1877, of 1896, of 1907, and of 1921 were largely, if not primarily, crises of the international rather than of any domestic economy. But the economist sees only crises originating in domestic prices, domestic overconsumption or underconsumption, domestic overinvestment or underinvestment. He promises to fight and overcome any crisis entirely within the domestic economy and by domestic policies. This is a most unconvincing promise. A crisis originating in the world economy, e.g., in a lack of world liquidity, can only be made worse by domestic measures. Such measures are inevitably protectionist. They attempt to isolate the domestic economy. Any such attemptcomparable to the way the wealthy in earlier times fled to the countryside to escape the plaguecan have only one result: the epidemic spreads twice as fast and twice as far, lasts twice as long, and does many times as much damage. Yet the economist and the economic policy maker are probably better off to have no economic theory for the world economy than to depend on what theory we do have, under the name of "international economics"that old museum piece, Adam Smith's theory of international trade. It is elegant theory; but it was valid only for pre-industrial economics. This theory sees international trade as based on "differential advantage" in the "factors of production." Its famous example (used first by David Ricardo in the early 1800's) is the exchange of Portuguese wine against English wool where the climate of the one country favors wine while that of the other favors sheep raising. It concludes

that the greatest opportunities are for complementary trade and exist between countries of different technological levels and of different economics in their "factors of production." India and the United States, in terms of the theory of international trade, are "complementary"; Germany or Switzerland and the United States are "competitive." International trade should be greatest, therefore, between the United States and India. And between two technologically equal countries, such as the United States and Switzerland or Germany, there should be no trade at all, or only the most limited trade. The exact opposite is true. The more nearly equal two countries are in their economic structure, their technology, and their factorial costs, the greater and the more intensive is the trade between them. The more complementary they are, the less trade there is between them. This has now been known for well over a century. When the continent of Europe first started to industrialize and thus to become "competitive" to Great Britain, its trade with Great Britain, until then quite small, started to expand rapidly. The economist's standard excuse for the failure of reality to behave according to the predictions of international trade theory has been that India is too poor to buy the advanced goods America produces. But the lack of purchasing power in India does not explain the high level of trade between the United States and Switzerland, which is the truly important phenomenon. It does not explain why Swiss-American trade is increasing faster the closer Swiss productivity, Swiss technology, and Swiss standards of living come to those of the United States. The theory of international trade assumes that goods move but the "factors of production" are fixed in place. But even if the "factors of production" were defined as "land, labor, and capital," this is not valid. "Land,'' of course, does not move. But labor has at times been very mobile, in the settlement of North America, for instance, and also within the last twenty years in the migration of rural proletarians from southern Europe (where they were an economic drag) into the industrial areas of central and northern Europe (where they became productive)a migration, in other words, that raised both the productivity of the areas the migrants left and the productivity of the

areas to which they moved. And capital has high mobility unless restricted by government. Much more important, however, is that knowledge, the true "factor of productivity," enjoys almost unlimited mobility. It is not the investment of American companies in Europe that creates productivity. It is the fact that this investment is predicated on the movement of knowledge from America to Europe, both technological and managerial, which underlies the capital investment. Knowledge is a very peculiar economic resource. When moved from the United States to Europe, it is a net import to Europe and a net addition to the European stock of capital. But there is no corresponding decrease in the American stock of capital. We have conveyed knowledge, and we get paid for it. But we have not "exported" it. Indeed we have probably enriched our own knowledge resources and made them more productive. This is not possible with any other resource. No other resource can be conveyed from one man to another in such a way that the process of transfer enriches both. To the extent to which knowledge can be transferred, trade is created. Obviously it is much easier to transfer knowledge between areas of comparable knowledge levelthat is, between countries on the same level of developmentthan it is to transfer knowledge where there are not many people ready to receive it. This does not deny the importance of comparative costs. But it makes comparative costs a restraint on international transactions rather than the basis thereof, at least between countries capable of putting knowledge to work. It also does not invalidate Adam Smith's theory that the largest possible amount of trade between nations is the greatest benefit to all of them. But his rather simple conclusions of how the system works, which nineteenth-century, free-trade doctrine put into practice, may need considerable revision. Free trade in goods, on which Smith put the stress, is important. But free movement of capital and free movement of knowledge may be more important still. Adam Smith's complementary trade has not disappeared. To be sure, there is little English raw wool today, though there is still Portuguese wine. But petroleum is still being produced where it can be found. Being "land," in Adam Smith's terms, a petroleum field can-

not be moved. Its product must be brought to the market for energy. With atomic energy, however, this "complementary" trade is likely to become a good deal less important, though not necessarily smaller. Similarly, wheat grows only in the temperate zone. If people in the tropics want it, it must be brought to them, and so on. But "complementary" trade is today only one component of trade and only one element in the world economy. It is "competitive" trade that provides the thrust to international trade by and large. World trade in manufactured goods has increased much faster than both "complementary" trade in natural products and production of manufactured goods. Between 1816 and 1950 such trade tripled per capita. Between 1950 and 1966 it more than doubled again, increasing at an annual rate of 7.5 per centthat is, doubling every ten years. The great bulk of this increase from 1870 on, when our statistics began to be reliable, is trade between highly industrialized countriescompetitive rather than complementary trade. Most international trade today is competitive trade, that is, trade in manufactured products in which the "comparative cost" is the result of the application of knowledge rather than of the exploitation of nature. Yet we have no theory for it. Indeed, according to our theory this tradethe reality of the economic world we live incannot happen. How dangerous such deficient theory can become is shown by the example of Britain. In international trade negotiations the British still follow the traditional theory. They, therefore, have put all their emphasis on keeping open markets for British "complementary" trade, i.e., for whisky, china, and so on. But they have tended to neglect "competitive" trade. They have looked for areas where nature (or history) rather than knowledge gives them an advantage. As a result, they have focused on yesterday's opportunities and denied themselves the fruits of their ownvery greatknowledge achievements. Adam Smith explained the international economy for his day. There is urgent need now for an economic theory that starts out with the world economy and then explains the domestic economy as part of the world economy. We are not going back to the nineteenth-

century separation of domestic and international economy. But we must go beyond the traditional limitation of economic analysis to the domestic economy. Macroeconomy and Microeconomy Economists speak of their theory as one of the "macroeconomy." This, however, not only fails to take in the true "macroeconomy," that is, the world economy, it also leaves out the economic areas where actual costs are incurred and actual results are achievedthe "microeconomy" of producer, consumer, and market. The "macroeconomy" deals with one nation as a whole. It is essentially an economic theory of the national government, of national income and its distribution, of national flows of credit and money, and of over-all price levels. To its macroeconomic focus, modern economic theory owes its penetrating power. In fact, "economic analysis" would not have developed except for its self-confinement to macroeconomic events. Modern economics really began when the last attempt at an economic theory of individuals and businessesthe theory of the Austrian school of 1880was pushed aside in favor of statistical approaches to the behavior of money, credit, employment, and production within the over-all, the national, the "macro" economy. The assumption underlying this modern approach is plausible: individual components of an economywhether private persons, consumers, businesses, local governments, and so ontend in the aggregate to behave like the particles in the physicists' "ideal gas." Each particle may have its own motion brought about by forces that act exclusively on it, or even by forces entirely within it. Yet in the aggregate the whole mass will have one behavior, governed by probability distribution and conforming to an "average." The only true actor, the only force capable of directing and controlling the behavior of the individual particle, is outside force, that is, the government through its fiscal and monetary policies. This, however, is less and less accurate as a description of what goes on. Even though government sometimes appears to have become all-powerful, the divergence between the behavior of the aggregate, as

predicted on the basis of probability, and actual events, is becoming greater rather than smaller. Economists admit this but they tend to explain it away as something that "ought not to happen." They attribute it to the effects of monopoly, for instance. But the purpose of a theory is to make possible effective action and to predict what is most likely to happen. It is quite immaterial that what has happened should not have happened. If "what should not happen" is the rule rather than the exception, then we had better get a different theory. Increasingly, what the "macroeconomic" model tells us should happen and what really happens are almost opposites. Here are some recent examples. In 1966, the Federal Reserve Board, which, by common consent, is a singularly well-informed and effective organ of economic policy and largely independent of political pressures, raised interest rates so as to put the brakes on what threatened to become a runaway boom. But the Federal Reserve Board did not want to disturb home building, if only because the next major economic advance in the American economy was thought to depend on family formation and home building as large masses of young people reached working age and entered the labor force. The actual result was an almost complete collapse of home building when mortgage money practically disappeared. At the same time, the industrial boom was hardly affected. Rather than slow down, business reacted to the Federal Reserve measures by building up inventories even faster. In retrospect, it is easy to see what went wrong. But then everything is obvious to hindsight. There is absolutely no guarantee, however, that the next time a similar situation arises, a similar Federal Reserve Board action will have better resultsthough it is reasonable to assume that it will have different results. And again, hindsight, a year or two later, may then tell us why. The repeated failures of successive British governments in the postwar period to spur exports is another illustration. Every single measure taken by British governments, whether Labour or Conservative, led to curtailment of exports rather than to the expansion the measure was intended to bring about. Every single one penalized the efficient and technologically advanced industries on which growth and exports depend. The only difference between various measures by succeeding governments was that the inefficient industries with obsolescent technology were some-

times penalized along with the efficient and modern ones and sometimes escaped unscathed. In other words, sometimes these measures hurt the domestic economy more than they did at other times. But not one of them produced improvement in British international accounts even though this was the sole aim of the policy. Again and again businesses simply did not react the way the economists "knew" they would and must react. We have no economic theory regarding the relationship between events in the macroeconomy, controlled and predicted by economic theory, and events in the microeconomy, controlled by businesses, municipal governments, research scientists in industrial laboratories, or plain consumers. As a result, the 99 per cent of economic decisions which deal with policy in respect to businesses, municipal governments, consumers, and so on have to do without benefit of theory and indeed without much rational guidance. The daily actions of government agencies in all countrieslocal-government budgets and taxes, regulation of business, or consumer policiesfrustrate the over-all economic policies of the same government agencies for the macroeconomy. This happens in all areas, in antitrust for instance, or in the way transportation is regulated. Yet we simply do not know enough about the microeconomy to predict this. All we can offer is hindsight. All we can offer before the damage has been done are opinions, based perhaps on experience but without sanction in economic theory or foundation in economic analysis. All one can argue is that "common sense" makes it appear that this particular microeconomic policy of government is not truly compatible with the government's macroeconomic goals. But opinions, needless to say, are cheap, plentiful, and not particularly convincing. As a result, the modern economyby definition an economy in which government policy and the economic behavior of all other groups and persons are intimately intertwinedhas little capacity for economic policy. On the one side, there is a beautiful, elegant model of the macroeconomy; on the other side there is an ungodly mess of unrelated, improvised, opinionated actions and policies. Monetary and fiscal measures which derive from the neat, clean, elegant model of economic analysis have results in the real economy that have noth-

ing whatever to do with the intent of the policy or the arguments behind it; and events in the microeconomy, which no one foresaw, completely change the behavior and results of the macroeconomy. The evidence admits of only one conclusion: The postulate that the microeconomy has no power or motion of its own but is controlled in a probability distribution by events in the macroeconomyespecially fiscal and monetary onesis not tenable. At the very least, the microeconomy can vary its responses to the same macroeconomic events so as to make the same macroeconomic policy come out differently under apparently identical circumstances. It is more intelligent to postulate that the "particles" are "organisms" rather than "atoms." They are more nearly capable of determining their own behavior and action, at least at times, rather than being confined to reacting to outside stimuli. Our experience has been that the macroeconomy while limiting the organisms in the microeconomy does not control them. What We Need A theory of the microeconomy will require a good deal of information which we today have at best in fragmentary form. It will also require new concepts. We know, for instance, an enormous amount about the market. But the information is scattered. It is primarily what the "practical" people know, the people in business, the marketing people, the advertising people, the merchants. In many cases it is not even known consciously but simply applied in day-to-day work, without much thought as to how much of what is considered "knowledge" is really untested opinion, if not near-anecdote. To give but one example: No one really knows whether advertising does anything, or if so, what. There is a belief abroad that advertising is omnipotent. But again and again the most lavish advertising campaign fails to produce any demand. The Ford "Edsel," which was such a complete failure, had, for instance, the biggest advertising appropriation and the best-planned campaign in all automotive history. There is another belief, popular among another school of intellectuals, that advertising has no effect whatever and is sheer waste of money. But no one has any information.

Advertising is mass marketing. If effective at all, it should be the most economical and cheapest method of distribution. For every dollar of advertising spent, countless dollars should be saved that would otherwise have to be spent to bring a product to market. But no one has ever tried to find out if advertising is indeed economical mass distribution or what its economics are. No one, to my knowledge, even knows how one might frame the hypothesis so that it could be tested. Traditional economic theory knows only "commodities." It does not know "products." A commodity is defined entirely by physical characteristics. Competition, therefore, is always between units that are clearly defined and distinguished and differ from each other only by their price. Products are, however, much more complex. They are usually not capable of being defined in physical terms alone. They are usually differentiated in the value they offer the buyera house built in one style differs from another, even though its physical characteristics, such as the number and size of the rooms, may be identical. And there the traditional commodity concept is simply not adequate. Nor do we have any adequate understanding of "price," even in the economist's traditional definition of "price" as being what the supplier receives. It is, for instance, absolutely impossible under prevailing theory for a price to be too low from the point of view of the buyer. It is impossible, in other words, for an increase in price to result in an increase in demand. Yet this happens every day in the actual economy. The economist, when confronted with such a phenomenon, is liable to talk of the "irrational customer." But this is about as sensible as for the doctor to talk of an "irrational infection" when a certain strain of bacteria refuses to yield to an antibiotic. The fact is that something is happening that is not in accord with what the theory has predicted. The theory needs to be changed. We probably need to shift from a theory that focuses on cost to the producer to one that defines "price" as what the buyer pays to obtain whatever he bought an article for. Instead of maker's costs being central, buyer's value should be. This may seem easy. But the U.S. Department of Defense has for a decade been working on "lifecycle costing" under which weapons and supplies are to be bought on the basis of what they will cost the government over their entire

estimated service life, including the cost of maintenance and repairs and the cost of training people in their use. And the more deeply we go into this the more complex "price" becomes. We will have to understand the reality of the market in terms of what it is rather than in terms of what it is not. We take the market for granted in the West. But we need to realize why the Communists had to rediscover the market, even though this not only denied Marx but threatens the central control of the economy by their governments. The market is not determined by macroeconomic forces as the macroeconomist maintains (and in this respect the "capitalist" economists are no different from their Communist brethren). It was this belief that led the Communist planners into their worst mistakes. They have now learned that the market determines. It is the mechanism for allocating resources to results. The market is an autonomous force with its own values, its own dynamics, and its own decisions. It can, of course, be influenced by macroeconomic events. But even if the macroeconomy controls completely what is produced and how it is distributedas it attempted to do in the Russian Five-Year Plansthe market is not subdued. It can be distorted. But it cannot be thwarted. The moment the consumer has any choice, the market, rather than the planner, is back in control. The new economics is therefore only a beginning. It is a magnificent beginning in many waysin its penetrating power, its analytical definitions and concepts, and in its rigor. But to give us the necessary economic understanding and policy requires a great deal more. We need a theory of economic dynamics in addition to the theory of equilibrium, which is all we have now. We need a theoretical understanding of technological innovation as an economic event and its integration into economic theory and economic policy. We need a model of the world economy and an understanding of the complex relationships between the world economy and the domestic economy. Finally we need a theory of microeconomic behavior, that is, of the behavior of the actorsthe "organisms"of the economy. For it is the microeconomy, in the end, that produces economic results, goods and services, jobs and incomes. Ideally, all these new understandings should be one unified theory.

We should be able to integrate microeconomy, macroeconomy, and world economy into one "economic field." Certainly the same basic concepts will run through all of them, e.g., the concept of knowledge as the central factor in productivity. But it is conceivable that we will have to be content with a number of theories which, while constructed on the same general plan, will differ and be separate. After all, physics throughout the entire nineteenth century was a series of separate fields; optics, thermodynamics, electricity, and mechanics were but loosely connected. It was not until quantum mechanics in this century that physics became unified again as it had been at the time of Newtonand today, only half a century after Planck, Bohr, and Rutherford, physics is again split into a number of discrete fields. Yet there is physics as a discipline, unified by a common approach and by a general plan and method. No one would carp if economics had a similar development. The new economics, whatever the brand, is not a theory of the economy. It is, at best, an anatomy, a static, rather lifeless, and mechanistic description of an important but limited segment: the governmental economy of the nation-state sans world but also sans entrepreneur, business, and consumer. It is, to continue the medical metaphor, the skeleton. Without it, one cannot understand or treat the body. But by itself it does not explain the body nor permit diagnosis or treatment. It is the necessary starting point. But nothing could be more dangerous than to pretend, as the new economics does in every country, that this is the answer and truly the economic theory, whichas a kind of economic philosopher's stoneenables us to prevent, or at least to cure, serious economic ailments such as depressions or stagnation. Fortunately this is beginning to be realizednone too soon. While all these grandiose claims are being made on behalf of the new economics, serious economists are beginning the work we so badly need. The textbooks for the student are, to be sure, still those of the new economics, and the broad public is still being encouraged in the belief that the real battles of economics today are over what Keynes said and whether he was right. But the "hot" economics in the United States are quite different from those that dominate the President's Council of Economic Advisers and the public prints.

For the last few years the hero of the young American economists has been Milton Friedman of the University of Chicago. And he has nothing but contempt for the new economics. Friedman's theory focuses on growth instead of equilibrium. He brushes off all fiscal policies as irrelevant, if not harmful. Instead he demands a commitment to a systematic, planned and continuing expansion of money and credit at a fixed rate, such as 3 per cent a year. This would then, according to him, do away with the need to manage the national economy through fiscal measures, tax policies, budgetary deficits or surpluses, discount rates, and so on. This may well be the most radical proposal in economics since Adam Smith startled the eighteenth-century world with his conclusion that tariffs and subsidies only weaken national economies. Despite this, Friedman has been President of the American Economic Association. Indeed, ironically, this iconoclast is considered an archconservative and was Senator Goldwater's economic adviser during the 1966 campaign. Friedman is indeed an archconservative. Yet once he had put growth, rather than equilibrium, in the center of his monetary theory, his radical conclusions were inevitable. No American economist surpasses Milton Friedman in gathering monetary data. No one can outdo Friedman as a virtuoso economic analyst. Friedman, despite his reputation as the great conservative, is not, in other words, going back to the time before the new economics. He is going beyond it. In Great Britain today the rising star in economics is none of the Keynesians in the public eye, whether Labour or Conservative. It is G. L. S. Shackle, who professes economics at Liverpool rather than in one of the prestige universities such as Oxford, Cambridge, or London, whence government advisers are usually drawn. Shackle is the only English economist to have been brought out in a paperback, and by the Cambridge University Press at that. By no means an easy author to readthe paperback title, Economics for Pleasure, is a gross misnomerhe is increasingly being read, especially by the younger British economists. Shackle himself is thoroughly modernin fact, he first made a name as a guide to the Keynesians and post-Keynesians. He attracts the young

precisely because he starts offas did the classical economists a century agowith the behavior of the individual in the economy and indeed with the axiom of man, the individual, as the ''moving part" of the economy. His most original contribution is an attempt to base a comprehensive theory of economics on the expectations of businessmen and entrepreneurs. Here he starts with the goal, the future, and our ideas thereof, and works back to present actions. His is the first true economics of a moving goal, the first economics based on teleological dynamics. It makes little sense to ask whether this new economics "beyond the new economics" is going to be "conservative" or "liberal." We actually need both types. Moreover, the coming economics will not repudiate the new economics. On the contrary, it will take from the latter analysis, the rigor, the emphasis on quantification, and the insistence on copious information rather than on opinion. But the coming economics will differ greatly from the new economics in its subject matter, in its concerns, and in its approach to economic activity.

PART THREE A SOCIETY OF ORGANIZATIONS

8 The New Pluralism Historians two hundred years hence may see as central to the twentieth century what we ourselves have been paying almost no attention to: the emergence of a society of organizations in which every single social task of importance is entrusted to a large institution. To us, the contemporaries, one of these institutionsgovernment or big business, the university or the labor unionoften looks like the institution. To the future historian, however, the most impressive fact may be the emergence of a new and distinct pluralism, that is, of a society of institutional diversity and diffusion of power. He may report for the closing decades of the twentieth century an upsurge of creative thought in the social and political spheres as great as that of the seventeenth century, when Bodin, Locke, and Hobbes gave us what we still call "modern social theory." To most of us today, the power of central government seems to be unchallengedwhether we applaud or deplore it. Tomorrow's historian may come to call our era "the twilight of central government." Impotence rather than omnipotence may well appear to him the most remarkable feature of government in the closing decades of the twentieth century. And new political theory regarding the structure, organization, and limitations of power and government, both domestically and internationally, may play a prominent part in his narrative. Sixty years ago, before World War I. the social scene everywhere

looked much like the Kansas prairie: the largest thing on the horizon was the individual. Most social tasks were accomplished in and through family-sized units. Even government, no matter how formidable it looked, was really small and cozy. The government of Imperial Germany looked like a colossus to its contemporaries; but an official in the middle ranks could still know personally everyone of importance in every single ministry and department. The scaling-up in size since then is striking. There is no country in the world today where the entire government establishment of 1910 could not comfortably be housed in the smallest of the new government buildings now going up, with room to spare for a grand-opera house and a skating rink. This is true of the United States, where all the government agencies of Teddy Roosevelt's timefederal, state, and localwould find ample office space in a single one of the regional buildings of the federal service that are now going up in Denver or Boise. It is just as true of Japan. Even the smallest Japanese prefecture has a brand-new office building that rivals the Tokyo ministry buildings that sufficed Imperial Japan when it challenged the West for world leadership twenty-five years ago. Shortly before World War I, the citizens of Zurich in Switzerland built a new city hall. At the time it was strongly criticized as an extravaganza grandiose beyond anything that would ever be needed. Zurich has grown little in the half-century since. And the Swiss rightly pride themselves on the simplicity and modesty of their local governments. Yet Zurich has long outgrown the city hall of 1910; most of the local government is now in office skyscrapers all over town. The army of little Israel that clobbered the Arabs in June 1967 had less than one-tenth of the manpower of the army that Imperial Germany launched against France and Russia in 1914. But each Israeli soldier had at his disposal about two hundred times the firepower of his 1914 Prussian counterpart. Indeed the Vietcong soldiers in Vietnam, for all that they are "guerrillas" and "live off the land," have many times the firepower per soldier of the most highly powered army prior to the closing years of World War II. The hospital of 1914 was a place for the poor to die. Fewer than three out of every hundred babies born in this country (or any place else in the West) were born in hospitals at that time. Today all but one or two out of every hundred babies are born in hospitalsand most of the excep-

tions are born in the ambulance on the way. For each hundred patients the hospital fifty years ago had thirty employees, most of them washerwomen and cooks. Now for every hundred patients it has three hundred employees, most of them highly trained "health-care professionals" (such as medical and X-ray technicians, dieticians, psychiatric and social case workers, physical therapists, and so on). The doctor of 1900 could easily practice medicine without access to a hospital. If he spent any time there, he did so to tend charity patients, out of the kindness of his heart. Today the doctor is increasingly dependent on the hospital. Twenty years hence, doctors may well have their offices in the hospital. The hospital rather than the doctor's office is rapidly becoming the center of modern health care. No university in the Western world had more than 5,000 students before 1914. Even so the largest of themBerlinhad become too big to be manageable; the Germans, in the years before World War I, had to split out research in the sciences and set it up in separate institutes. Today universities of 20,000 students are "medium-sized." And the research laboratory has grown just as fast. The first of the early German institutes for pure research, which numbered such giants as Planck and Einstein among its members, had a total employment of twenty or thirty scientists. Today, the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kansasa specialized center for research in psychiatry and mental health and by no means a very large onehas nine hundred employees of whom two hundred are professionals: psychiatrists, psychologists, neurologists, and so on. In the days before World War I, the one "large" organization around was business. But the "big business" of 1910 would strike us today as a veritable minnow. The "octopus" that gave our grandparents nightmares, John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust, was cut into fourteen pieces by the Supreme Court in 1911. Less than thirty years later, by 1940, every one of these successor companies was larger than Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust had beenby every measurement: employees, sales, capital invested, and so on. Yet only three of these fourteen Standard Oil daughter companies (Jersey Standard, Socony Mobil, and Standard of California) were "major" international oil companies. The rest ranked from ''small" to "mid-

dling" by 1940 yardsticks and would be "small business" today, another thirty years later. We cannot hope to understand this society of ours unless we accept that all institutions have become giants. Businesses today are a good deal bigger than the biggest company was in John D. Rockefeller's time. But universities are relatively a good deal bigger still than Rockefeller's other creation: the University of Chicago, which he founded, around the turn of the century, as perhaps the first modern university in America. Hospitals are relatively bigger still and a great deal more complex than any of the other institutions. Even voluntary or charitable associations have become giants. The Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) of the United States now has a budget in excess of $200 millionmore than even large states in this country spent before World War II. The YMCA employs thousands of people, and has its own internal staff concerned with management and organization. The Carnegie Corporationour oldest philanthropic foundationwas a veritable giant only a generation ago. But the new giant, the Ford Foundation, in one recent year (1966) outspent Carnegie twenty-five times. Indeed the Ford Foundation's disbursements that year$350 millionwere larger than Carnegie's total assets. And the Ford Foundation staff is so huge that it has its own big office buildings not only in New York City but also in many capitals throughout the world where Ford has larger missions than any but the Great Powers. The problem of the "concentration" of power is no longer peculiar to the economy. Business concentration has not increased in the last sixty years or so, and "small" business (which is also a good deal bigger than it used to be) is holding its own, apparently without difficulty. But the three or four largest labor unions hold relatively much more industrial power than the ten or twenty or thirty largest businesses. And we have a "concentration of brain power" in a few large universities such as has never been seen in any other area of social lifeand such as would not have been tolerated earlier. The great majority of all doctorates in the United States are given by some twenty universitiesone-tenth of one per cent of all institutions of higher learning in the country. And nothing resembling the

concentration of military might in the arsenals of the "superpowers," the United States and Russia, has been known in international society since the Roman Empire at the peak of its power in the first century A.D. But the scaling-up in size and budget is not the most important change. What makes the real difference is that all our major social functions are today being discharged in and through these large, organized institutions. Every single social task of major impactdefense and education, government and the production and distribution of goods, health care and the search for knowledgeis increasingly entrusted to institutions which are organized for perpetuity and which are managed by professionals, whether they are called "managers," "administrators," or "executives." Government looks like the most powerful of these institutionsit is certainly the one that spends the most. But each of the others discharges a function that is essential to society and has to be discharged in its own right. Each has its own autonomous management. Each has its own job to do and therefore its own objectives, its own values, and its own rationale. If government is still the "lord," it can no longer be the "master." Increasingly, whatever the theory of a government or its constitutional law, government functions as a "coordinator," a "chairman,'' or at most a "leader." Yet, paradoxically, government suffers from doing too much and too many things. Government, to be effective and strong, may have to learn to "decentralize" to the other institutions, to do less in order to achieve more. What has emerged in this half-century is a new pluralism. There is little left of the structure that our seventeenth-century political theory still preaches, a structure in which government is the only organized power center. It is totally inadequate, however, to see just one of these new institutionsbusiness, for instance, or the labor union, or the universityand proclaim it the new institution. * Social * I must plead guilty to having done this myselftwenty-odd years ago. In Concept of the Corporation (New York: John Day, 1946) I called big business the "determining" institution of our time. However, the other institutions were then barely visible; the crystalline structure of our society had not yet become apparent. There is little excuse today, however, for such oversimplification as that in John Kenneth Galbraith's latest book, The New Industrial State (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1967), which fails to notice any institution except business.

theory, to be meaningful at all, must start out with the reality of a pluralism of institutionsa galaxy of suns rather than one big center surrounded by moons that shine only by reflected light. Pluralist power centers of yesterdaythe duke, the count, the abbot, even the yeomandiffered from each other only in titles and revenues. One was the superior and overlord of the other. Each center was limited in territory, but each was a total community and embraced whatever organized social activity and political life there was. Each center was concerned with the same basic activity, above all, wresting a livelihood from the land. The federalism of the American system still assumes this traditional pluralism. The federal government, state governments, and municipalities all have their own distinct geographic limitations and stand to each other in a position of higher and lower. But each has essentially the same function. Each is a territorial government with police powers and tax powers, charged with traditional governmental tasks, whether defense or justice or public order. This is simply not true of the new institutions. Each of them is a special-purpose institution. The hospital exists for the sake of health care, the business to produce economic goods and services, the university for the advancement and teaching of knowledge, each government agency for its own specific purpose, the armed services for defense, and so on. Not one of them can be considered "superior" or "inferior" to the other, for only a fool would consider the advancement of knowledge superior to health care or to the provision of economic goods and services. But at the same time, not one of them can be defined territorially. Each, in other words, is "universal'' in a way that none of the old institutions (excepting only the medieval church) ever claimed to be. And yet each of them is limited to a small fragment of human existence, to a single facet of human community. The problems of this new pluralism are quite different from the problems of both the pluralisms of our past and the unitary society of our political theory and constitutional law. In earlier pluralisms every member of the system, from the yeoman up to the most powerful king, understood exactly the positions of the other members of the hierarchy, their tasks and their problems. Indeed, everyone had

exactly the same tasks and the same problems; only the scale varied. In the new pluralism each institution has different tasks. It takes different things for granted. It considers different things to be important. While the vice president of a big business, the division chief in the government agency, and the department chairman in the university may operate on a very similar scale and have managerial problems of comparable magnitude, they do not easily understand each other's roles, tasks, and decisions. The members of earlier pluralisms were forever worried about their "precedence" and their place in the hierarchy relative to each other. This is not a major concern in today's pluralism. The hospital administrator is not particularly concerned as to whether he ranks the corporation president or the union leader or the air force general. But they all worry about "communications." It takes a great deal of experienceor, at the least, a great deal of imaginationfor one of the executives in today's pluralism to have any idea what the other ones are up to and why. These organizations have to live together and to work together. They are interdependent. Not one of them could exist by itself. Not one of them is by itself viable, let alone a total community, as were the components of earlier pluralist society. A theory of the society of organizations would have to be built on organizational interdependence. The modern armed services depend fully on the civilian apparatus of government. They depend equally on the economic institutions. Most of all, perhaps, do they depend on the universities. Dwight Eisenhower in his farewell message as President in 1961 warned of the "military-industrial complex," formed by the symbiosis of a powerful and permanent military establishment and a powerful and permanent defense industry. But actually, even at the height of the Vietnam war, the United States economy was not particularly dependent on defense business. If all the defense business had been eliminated with one stroke, there would have been no great crisis except in a few spots such as Southern California. The large universities of the country are, however, increasingly dependent on the militaryand the military, in turn, on them. To speak of the "military-university complex" makes a good deal of sense. And government depends on the economic fruits of business and the taxes they generate. The labor union is depen-

dent on management; it is equally dependent on government. Indeed, of all our major institutions, the union is the most nearly derivative. It requires both business management to produce the economic results which sustain the union and satisfy its demands, and government to provide the political support without which no union movement would last long. Never having known anything remotely like the society of organizations we now have, we have yet to learn to understand our pluralist society and to make policy for it. What is required is a clear view of its structure, realization that every single major task has become institutionalized and that we will have to deal with the problems this creates as generic problems of our society and as its norm. This is a big change in perception. The first to make it were the hippies. Where the liberal and the conservative alike still singled out this or that institution as either the "villain" or the "hero" of society, the hippies these last ten years have seen clearly that all society is one of organizations. While very few young people are hippies, the perception of our society as one of organizations is shared by the entire generation that is now reaching adulthood. It is the most visible characteristic of the "generation gap." The young are as alienated from the university as they are from the armed services or the government agency. We will not be granted the luxury of the hippies' rejection of all organizations. This is a luxury only the very young can afford, a luxury that presumes that the adults are taking care of things. But the adults will have to concern themselves with the reality that the hippies would like to make go awaythe reality of a society of organizations. The Symbiosis of Organizations The "interdependence" of organizations is different from anything we ever meant before by this term. It is not a new observation, of course, that no man in society is an island. It is not new that all of us, including the hermit, can only live our way because we can take it for granted that a host of other people will do their jobs for us. This physical interdependence is what people usually have in mind

when they think about "interdependence" at all. And of course this traditional kind of interdependence has become much more pronounced. The megalopolis, above all, is a universe of interacting, interdependent services, each absolutely essential for the functioning of the whole and the very existence of each member of the community. But the new interdependence among organizations is not primarily physical. Increasingly, major organizations farm out to each other the very performance of their own functions. Increasingly each organization is using the others as agents for the accomplishment of its own tasks. There is an intertwining of functions such as we have never known before. The roles are subject to rapid change; what one organization is expected to do today, another one may take on tomorrow. In the United States defense production was, prior to World War II, conducted in and by government-owned arsenals and dockyards, except during major wars. It was almost an axiom in American government that defense production had to be a government monopoly, with outside buying confined to rare and short periods of emergency. But since World War II, defense has primarily been supplied through buying from private contractors outside. Indeed we are closing the government's own shipyards and are concentrating naval shipbuilding in private yards. What was considered rare emergency procedure has become the rule. Even more amazing, work on military technology is also being contracted out. Increasingly, business and the university have taken on defense research. To be sure, the federal government has become the main source of research funds in the United States, in the defense and space areas, in medicine, and the social sciences as well. But at the same time, the government itself conducts proportionately a good deal less defense research than it did a generation ago when it was axiomatic that research relating to the defense of the nation is conducted in government establishments. Defense may be considered a poor example. We do not live in "peacetime" but in permanent twilight between war and peace. Everything related to defense, including production, procurement,

and research, it might be said, is therefore certain to be a new kind of hybrid. But the same hybrid can be found in areas where defense considerations do not enter. Politicians who are by no means noted for being conservatives (such as the late Robert Kennedy) have been proposing that metropolitan housing be handed over to private business. The only part of the War on Poverty that is not hopelessly mired in confusion and splintering, the Job Corps, is largely run by private companies such as Litton, ITT, and Westinghouse. In the state of California, private business has been used, with conspicuous success it seems, to study major policy problems facing the statethe rise in crime, for instance. For the first time in United States history, a major benefit program for soldiers, the insurance program for the men in Vietnam, has been farmed out entirely to private insurance companies (with Prudential as prime contractor). Blue Cross and private insurance carriers are running Medicare for the government. And with Medicare and Medicaid it is reasonably certain that the Veterans' Hospitalsthe oldest "socialized" medicine in Americawill disappear, with the job taken over by the voluntary and nongovernmental community hospital as agent of the government. Large universities such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology and California Institute of Technology, as well as Harvard and Columbia University, have become the most prolific breeders of new private businesses. The "science industry" of the last decades largely grew out of specialized university labs. Theoretical physicists in particular have proven extraordinarily capable as entrepreneurs and promoters of new companies. A good exampleonly one of manyis ITEK in Boston, a leader in space optics and one of the "glamour" stocks of the last years, which started as a physics laboratory of Boston University in World War II. Another example of this trend toward the blurring of the lines that only one generation ago separated "public" from "private" is the growth of business into education.

One big company after the otherIBM and GE, Time Inc., Westinghouse, Litton, RCA, and Raytheon, to name only a fewhas decided that education is the most promising field for business expansion. Litton, for instance, under a contract with Oakland County, Michigan (just outside of Detroit), has designed and is largely running a big new community college which experiments with all kinds of new learning techniques and tools. Westinghouse and IBM are busy in the Palo Alto, California, school system. Even a small company like Revell, a manufacturer of hobby kits, is running an educational experiment in a high school in Colorado. It no longer shocks anyone to hear that the hospital of tomorrow or the school of tomorrow may be designed, built, and largely run by businessesfor the trustees or the school board, of course. It no longer shocks anyone to hear the mayor of New York City propose that the city hospitals be turned over to the private hospitalsjust at the time when the private hospitals increasingly talk about turning over their administration to large companies with "systems" experience. And what many hail as the first promising attacks on the horrible mess of urban housing are the proposals of a few large companies, e.g., General Electric, to develop whole planned cities within reasonable commuting distance of the major metropolitan areas. Another large company, U.S. Gypsum, has been developing new approaches to housing for the poor which, by using new materials and new methods, convert slum dwellings into decent housing at fairly low cost and without "bulldozing off" the poor in the name of "slum clearance." The United States government has moved massively into research in the industrial fields and in medicine, but it has moved out of the one area of research where it used to have a monopoly: agriculture. Textbooks still teach that governments, federal and state, do most of the agricultural research work. But it is no longer true. Most of today's research in agriculture is done by private enterprise such as the seed companies, the farm implement makers, and the fertilizer manufacturers. Thirty years ago the governmental extension service was the prime agent in moving new technologyseeds, feeds, fertilizers, methods of cultivation, and implementsfrom the test plot to the farm. Today this work is done largely by the sales and service

organizations of private companies. The government confines itself increasingly to testing claims made by private developers of the new agricultural technology. What used to be simple relationships in which major institutions rarely met each other, and even more rarely had much to do with each other, is becoming an increasingly complex, confused, diffuse and crowded living-together. It is a chaotic, a developing, and by no means a clear, let alone clean, relationship. Political scientists are wont to talk of the "web" of government. But what we now have could only be described as a "felt" in which strands of the most diverse kind are tangled together in no order at all. The head of one American corporationa sizable one, though not one of the giantshad five emissaries from government call on him separately during one day not so long ago. The first one brought an invitation from President Johnson to serve on a commission to study trademark laws. The next one served an indictment from the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, charging the company with conspiracy to restrain competition in the use of a trademark. Then came the Department of Defense, urgently requesting the company to take on a research contractin the same area in which Antitrust was just charging the company with criminal conspiracy. The mayor of the city followed with a request that the company take on a training program for the underprivileged designed to give them craft skills rapidly. A European government wanted to discuss a proposal that the company take over and manage an ailing government-owned plant. "I was interrupted by these government people so often," said the president, "that I could not finish what was on my agenda for the daywe are thinking about contracting out a good bit of the applied research we are today doing in our own laboratories to a major new research center, founded cooperatively by a number of universities in the Upper South." Small wonder that our traditional rules, regulations, and customs cannot handle these almost incestuous love-hate relationships. The laws for defense procurement in the United States, for instance, are all based on the assumption that outside buying is "temporary emergency." They are further based on the assumption that what the government buys are normal civilian supplies such as uniforms. Spe-

cific defense material, it is assumed, will be made essentially by the government itself. That these laws cannot easily be applied to the design and production of a missile system by private industry is not astonishing. What is astonishing is that we get anything designed and produced at all under the existing defense procurement regulations. I served several years ago on a panel on patent law. My colleagues on the panel were all patent lawyers. They were concerned with technical reforms. As I listened to their talk, however, it became clear to me, the outsider, that technicalities were not the reason why the patent law had become a matter for discussion. The underlying assumptions were changingand the law had not changed with them. It simply had been taken for granted by the authors of our present patent law that research and invention in mechanical and industrial areas are done by private individuals either working for themselves or for private entrepreneurs. The law does not yet know that 75 per cent of the money spent today on research and invention is federal money. The patent law is saved, at least for the time being, by the fact that the government so far only knows how to spend money on research but not how to produce inventions. Much more than 75 per centcloser to 90 per centof all patentable inventions are still the result of private innovative activities. Government-financed research so far has been remarkably sterile. Even so, however, the patent law no longer fits reality. This is the reason why there are difficulties with it. Tinkering with technicalities will not fix them. Yet no one so far understands sufficiently what the new reality is, will be, or should be, to write a patent law appropriate to it. These are truly liaisons dangereuses and difficult relationships. Indeed the more results they produce, the more friction they also entail. If government, for instance in the defense program, insists that its private contractors adapt to the logic and rationale of a government service, they smother the contractor in red tape, in regulations, and in bureaucratic restrictions. And in the end, government is greatly irked because the contractor does not produce. But if government accepts the contractor's rationale and way of operating, that is, a business logic, the hard-won principles of accountability for public money all go by the board. In public accounts it is assumed that results, as a rule, cannot be

clearly measured. What matters, therefore, is that costs be scrupulously recorded. Costs existresults are hypothetical. But in business logic, costs exist only in contemplation of results. As long as the results are there, the less spent on controlling costs the better. The government servant simply does not understand this. But the businessman equally does not understand the government man's logic. Each rubs the other raw trying to work together, each resents the attitude of the other and is deeply suspicious of it, and yet each is dependent on the other. The same is true of yoking together government and the medical profession. Medical men see individuals. Indeed none of us would want to be treated by a physician who treats "averages." But no government can handle anything but large numbers or go by anything but averages. The relationship between university and business, between university and government, between university and the armed forces is similarly one of mutual failure to understand, of mutual suspicion and constant friction. And yet we will continue to see more of these relationships. They are necessary to produce the results that society wants. Bureaucracies, whether of government, of big business, of the large hospital, or of the large university share at least common patterns. But legislative bodies are baffled and deeply disturbed by the symbiotic relationships of the society of organizations. These relationships defy any control by the purse. They elude control by the legislature, whether the legislature be a parliament, a congress or even the rubberstamp of a Communist assembly. As a result legislatures feel that they no longer understand, let alone control. The more intimately the various large organizations work together, the more irked and perturbed will legislatures become. I have taken my examples from the United States. But the phenomenon is universalboth in respect to the growing interdependence of the various organizations and to the friction it creates. One of the best examples of both would be the Ferranti affair which, a few years ago, made headlines in Great Britain. The problem there was apparently that Ferranti, a large electronics company, had taken on a design contract for British defense which it performed so well that it made a large profit on itto everybody's shocked surprise. But

the problem is just as acute in the relationship between the British Health Service and the British teaching hospitals. Each needs the other. Increasingly the hospitals act as agents and subcontractors to the Health Service, but increasingly the two rub each other the wrong way. The problem exists in the Communist world as well. There is mutual dependence, for instance, between "politicians" and "managers"and deep rivalry and mutual suspicion between them as well. The Need for Theory The pluralist structure of modern society is independent, by and large, of political constitution and control, of social theory, or of economics. It has, therefore, to be tackled as such. It requires a political and social theory of its own. This is true of each individual organization as well. It too is new. We have, of course, had large organizations for centuries. The pyramids were built by highly organized masses of people. Armies have often been large and highly organized. But these organizations of yesterdayLewis Mumford calls them the "Megamachines" * were fundamentally different from the institutions of today. Great architects designed the great pyramidstheir names are recorded and they were worshiped as gods. But other than those few artist-geometers, there were only unskilled manual laborers, peasants from the villages, who pulled the ropes to move the big stones. Henry Ford's River Rouge plant making the Model T was an organization of the same kinda handful of bosses knew whatever was known, gave whatever orders were given, and made whatever decisions were made; the rest were unskilled manual laborers doing repetitive work. The basic difference between the pyramid builders and Henry Ford's men on the assembly line was that "scientific management" of the task made possible very high pay for the automobile worker. But the work and its organization was the same, and Henry Ford was conscious of this in his insistence that he be the only "manager" in the Ford Motor Company. Today's organization (including today's Ford Motor Company) is, however, principally a knowledge organization. It exists to make * In his book The Myth of the Machine (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1967).

productive hundreds, sometimes thousands, of specialized kinds of knowledge. This is true of the hospital where we now have some thirty-odd or more health-care professionseach with its own course of study, its own diploma, and its own professional code and standards. It is true of today's business, of today's government agency, and increasingly of today's army. In every one of them the bulk of the workers are hired not to do manual work but to do knowledge work. The Egyptian fellahin who pulled at the ropes when Cheops' supervisors barked out the order did not have to do any thinking and were not expected to have any initiative. The typical employee in today's large organization is expected to use his head to make decisions and to put knowledge responsibly to work. But perhaps even more important: today's knowledge organization is designed as a permanent organization. All the large organizations of the past were short-lived. They were called into being for one specific task and disbanded when the task had been accomplished. They were temporary. They were clearly the exception as well. The great majority of people in earlier society were unaffected by them. Today the great majority of people depend on organizations for their livelihood, their opportunities, and their work. The large organization is the environment of man in modern society. It is the source also of the opportunities of today's society. It is only because we have these institutions that we have jobs for educated people. Without them we would be confined, as always in the past, to jobs for people without education, people who, whether skilled or unskilled, work with their hands. Knowledge jobs exist only because permanent knowledge organization has become the rule. At the same time, modern organization creates new problems as well; above all, problems of authority over people. For authority is needed to get the job done. What should it be? What is legitimate? What are the limitations? There are also problems of the purpose, task, and effectiveness of each organization. There are problems of management. For the organization itself, like every collective, is a legal fiction. It is individuals in the organization who make the decisions and take the actions which are then ascribed to the institution, whether it be the ''United States," the "General Electric Company,"

or "Misericordia Hospital." There are problems of order and problems of morality. There are problems of efficiency and problems of relationships. And for none of them does tradition offer us much guidance. The permanent organization in which varieties of knowledge are brought together to achieve results is new. The organization as the rule rather than as the exception is new. And a society of organizations is the newest thing of them all. What is therefore urgently needed is a theory of organizations.

9 Toward a Theory of Organizations In the spring of 1968, a witty book made headlines for a few weeks. Entitled Management &amp; Machiavelli, * it asserted that every business is a political organization and that, therefore, Machiavelli's rules for princes and rulers are fully applicable to the conduct of corporation executives. Of course, this is not a particularly new insight. More than a century ago Anthony Trollope used the theme of Machiavellian politics in a British diocese to write one of the great Victorian classics, Barchester Towers. C. P. Snow, especially in The Masters (1951), has presented the university as an interplay of power. And the point that the corporation is a polity and a community fully as much as it is an economic organ has been made many times by now. ** The suburban ladies at whom the reviews of Management &amp; Machiavelli were largely aimed are probably fully aware that the bridge club and the PTA have nothing to learn about politicking from big business, or indeed from Machiavelli. That every organization must organize power and must therefore have politics is neither new nor startling. But during the last twenty years, nonbusinessesgovernment, the * Antony Jay (New York: Holt, Rinehart &amp; Winston, 1968). ** For instance, in my two books, Concept of the Corporation (New York: John Day, 1946) and The New Society (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1950).

armed services, the university, the hospitalhave begun to apply to themselves the concepts and methods of business management. And this is indeed new. This is indeed startling. When the Canadian armed services were unified in the spring of 1968, the first meeting of general officers from all the services had as its theme "managing by objectives." Government after government has organized "administrative staff colleges" for its senior civil servants in which it tries to teach them "principles of management.'' And when 9,000 secondary-school principals of the United States met in the crisis year of 1968, with its racial troubles and its challenges to established curricula, they chose for their keynote speech, "The Effective Executive," and invited an expert on business management to deliver it. The British Civil Service, that citadel of the "arts degree" in the classics, now has a management division, a management institute, and management courses of all kinds. Demand from nonbusiness organizations for the services of "management consultants" is rising a great deal faster than the demand from businesses. What is new is the realization that all our institutions are "organizations" and have, as a result, a common dimension of management. These organizations are complex and multidimensional. They require thinking and understanding in at least three areasthe functional or operational, the moral, and the political. The new general theory of a society of organizations will look very different from the social theories we are accustomed to. Neither Locke nor Rousseau has much relevance. Neither has John Stuart Mill or Karl Marx. Making Organization Perform How do organizations function and operate? How do they do their job? There is not much point in concerning ourselves with any other question about organizations unless we first know what they exist for. The functional or operational area by itself has three major parts, each a large and diverse discipline in its own right. They have to do with goals, with management, and with individual performance. 1. Organizations do not exist for their own sake. They are means: each society's organ for the discharge of one social task. Survival is

not an adequate goal for an organization as it is for a biological species. The organization's goal is a specific contribution to individual and society. The test of its performance, unlike that of a biological organism, therefore, always lies outside of it. The first area in which we need a theory of organizations is, therefore, that of the organization's goals. How does it decide what its objectives should be? How does it mobilize its energies for performance? How does it measure whether it performs? It is not possible to be effective unless one first decides what one wants to accomplish. It is not possible to manage, in other words, unless one first has a goal. It is not even possible to design the structure of an organization unless one knows what it is supposed to be doing and how to measure whether it is doing it. Anyone who has ever tried to answer the question, "What is our business?" has found it a difficult, controversial, and elusive task. "We make shoes" may seem obvious and simple. But it is a useless answer. It does not tell anyone what to do. Nor, equally important, does it tell anyone what not to do. Are we primarily concerned with the conversion of leather into goods that consumers will want to pay for? Or are we primarily concerned with mass distribution? Or are we in the fashion business? "Shoes" are simply a vehicle. What we actually do depends much less on the vehicle than on the specific economic satisfaction it is meant to carry and the specific contribution for which the business expects to get paid. Is a company that makes and sells kitchen appliances, such as electric ranges, in the food business? Is it in the homemaking business? Or is its main business really consumer finance? Each answer might be the right one at a given time for a given company. But each would lead to very different conclusions as to where the company should put its efforts and seek its rewards. If the answer given is "the food business," the company might go into preparing and marketing ready-cooked meals that require only heating to be served and eaten. But, if the answer is "consumer finance," the company might go out of manufacturing altogether and instead distribute a wide variety of high-cost consumer goods from wedding rings to trailer homes. These, however, would be the vehicle to carry the real "product" of the company, which would be consumer credit. In each of these definitions, different economic factors are seen as

dynamic and as determining results. Each, in turn, requires different abilities and defines both "market" and "success" differently. Similarly, "patient care" might seem an obvious and simple answer for the hospital. Hospital administrators, however, have found it impossible to define "patient care" or "health care." One reason why these questions are so difficult is that people differ in their judgments regarding the needs of the community. They set different priorities. There is also always a conflict between those who want to do better what is already being done and those who want to do different things. In fact, it is never possible to give a "final" answer to the question, "What is our business?" Any answer becomes obsolete within a short period. The question has to be thought through again and again. But if no answer at all is forthcoming, if objectives are not clearly set, resources will be splintered and wasted. There will be no way to measure the results. If the organization has not determined what its objectives are, it cannot determine what effectiveness it has and whether it is obtaining results or not. The cost/effectiveness concept which Robert McNamara introduced into the management of the American military forces while Secretary of Defense under President Kennedy was, above all, an attempt to force the military to think through objectives. Starting out from the truism that everything requires scarce resources and therefore incurs a cost, McNamara demanded that costs be related to results. The process disclosed at once that the military had not thought through what results it expected because it had not thought through the objectives of a strategy, of a command (e.g., the Tactical Air Force), or of a weapon. Is the objective to win a war? Or is it to prevent one? What kind of a war and where? These were the questions the cost/effectiveness formula forced the generals and admirals to think through and to work out among themselves and with their civilian superiors. Cost/effectiveness could not make policy decisions. But it did bring the confusion of policy and objectives into the open. It did show both how vital the decision on objectives is and how difficult and risky it is. There is no "scientific" way to set objectives for an organization. They are rightly value judgments, that is, true political questions.

One reason for this is that the decisions stand under incurable uncertainty. They are concerned with the future. And we have no "facts" regarding the future. In this area, therefore, there is always a clash of programs and a conflict of political values. Yet the twentieth-century political scientist was not entirely irresponsible when he abandoned concern with values, political programs, and ideologies and focused instead on the process of decision making. The most difficult and most important decisions in respect to objectives are not what to do. They are, first, what to abandon as no longer worthwhile and, second, what to give priority to and what to concentrate on. These are not, as a rule, ideological decisions. They are judgments, of course; they are, and should be, informed judgments. Yet they should be based on a definition of alternatives rather than on opinion and emotion. The decision about what to abandon is by far the most important and the most neglected. Large organizations cannot be versatile. A large organization is effective through its mass rather than through its agility. Fleas can jump many times their own height, but not elephants. Mass enables the organization to put to work a great many more kinds of knowledge and skill than could possibly be combined in any one person or small group. But mass is also a limitation. An organization, no matter what it would like to do, can only do a small number of tasks at any one time. This is not something that better organization or "effective communications" can cure. The law of organization is concentration. Also inherent in organization is the separation of those who decide from those who carry out. In single combat, as at the walls of Troy, the individual swordsman was also his own strategist. But a military organization does not have to be very large before those who fight must get their commands from somebody else who is far from the scene of combat. This means that there has to be a "plan," a preparation for carrying it out, and preparation for changing it if necessary. If the plan is changed fast or without preparation, total confusion ensues. Some of the people at the front will still follow the old plan and simply get into the way of those who have switched to whatever the new plan demands. The bigger the organiza-

tion, the longer it takes to change direction, the more important it is to maintain a course. Yet modern organization must be capable of change. Indeed it must be capable of initiating change, that is, innovation. It must be able to move scarce and expensive resources of knowledge from areas of low productivity and nonresults to opportunities for achievement and contribution. Organization is a maximizing device. And modern organization is our device to maximize that unique human resource, knowledge. This, however, requires the ability to stop doing what wastes resources rather than maximizes them. An organization, whatever its objectives, must therefore be able to get rid of yesterday's tasks and thus to free its energies and resources for new and more productive tasks. If it wants to be able to work on opportunities, it must be able to abandon the unproductive and to slough off the obsolete. No organization which purposefully and systematically abandons the unproductive and obsolete ever wants for opportunities. Ideas are always around in profusion. This is certainly true for the kind of ideas an organization needs and can use, that is, ideas of sufficient clarity, definition, and acceptability to be applied in performances. These are not "original" ideas as the artist would define this term. They are, so to speak, ideas that are ready for the popularizer, ideas which have already passed the test of imagination and now only await the test of application. Lack of "creativity" is, therefore, not the problem of organization. Rather it is organizational inertia which always pushes for continuing what we are already doing. At least we knowor we think we knowwhat we are doing. Organization is always in danger of being overwhelmed by yesterday's tasks and being rendered sterile by them. If a subject has become obsolete, the university faculty makes a required course out of itand this "solves the problem" for the time being. Hospital administrators have known for decades now that the open ward is uneconomical. Indeed their figures show plainly that the private room for single occupancy is the most economical accommodation (for the simple reason that it permits mixing the sexes on the same floor and thus

makes possible having one full floor rather than two half-empty ones each of which requires full staffing). They also know that the open ward is undignified, medically undesirable, and an impediment to rapid recovery. Yet they are still building new wards when adding wings to existing hospitals, and even in brand-new hospitals. And while every medical school has added new medical specialties to the curriculum, I know of none that has dropped a single one of the old ones. The worst offender is government. Indeed the inability to stop doing anything is the central degenerative disease of government and a major reason why government today is sick. Several years ago a Royal Commission on the Government of Canada took an inventory of all Canadian government agencies. It found that there was still a "Halifax Disaster Commission" in Nova Scotia, busily copying the records of relief payments that had been made forty years earlier, at the end of World War I, to the victims of a 1917 explosion of an ammunitions ship in Halifax Harbor. Yet the Canadian government has been fairly tight-fisted and closely controlled, by and large, if only because each of the ten provinces resents the spending of tax money outside of its own borders. Hospital and university are only a little better than government in getting rid of yesterday. But business does reasonably well in this area. Businessmen are just as sentimental about yesterday as bureaucrats. They are just as reluctant to abandon anything. They are just as likely to respond to the failure of a product or program by doubling the efforts invested in it. But they are, fortunately, unable to indulge freely in their predilections. They stand under an objective discipline, the discipline of the market. They have an objective outside measurement, profitability. And so they are forced (much to their chagrin) to slough off the unsuccessful and unproductive sooner or later. We need concepts and measurements that give to other organizations what the market test and the profitability yardstick give to business. The tests and yardsticks will undoubtedly be quite different. Economic results, which in a business are determining factors, are only limitations and restraints for other organizations. For profit measures economic performance, and this is the purpose only of an

economic organization, that is, a business. In other organizations, government, hospital, the military, and so on, economics is only a restraint. These institutions need a noneconomic equivalent to the profitability yardstick. They also need a substitute for the objective force of the market. All organizations need a discipline that makes them face up to reality. They need to recognize that the probability that any activity or program will fail is always greater than the probability that it will turn out successful, let alone that it will accomplish what it was designed to do. They need to know that virtually no program or activity will perform for a long time without modification and redesign. Eventually every activity becomes obsolete. Equally crucial to the area of objectives is the decision concerning priorities of concentration. If there is one dependable finding from a century's study of the political process, it is that action decisions are rarely made on the basis of ideology. The crucial question is: "what comes first?" rather than "what should be done?" There is often substantial agreement as to what should be done, but there is always disagreement as to what should be done first. The normal human reaction is to evade the priority decision by doing a little bit of everything. This, I am afraid, is what President Johnson meant by his famous "consensus." The result, predictably, was that nothing got done. In the end there was greater conflict and dissension than any debate over priorities could have engendered. 2. In their objectives the major organizations are all different. Each of them serves a different purpose of the community. In the managerial area, however, organizations are essentially similar. Since all organizations require large numbers of people brought together for joint performance and integrated into a common undertaking, they all have the problem of balancing the objectives of the institution against the needs and desires of the individual. Each organization has the task of balancing the need for order against the need for flexibility and individual scope. Each requires a structure determined by the task and its demands. Each also requires a structure determined by generic "principles of organization," that is, in

effect, by constitutional rules. Unless each recognizes the authority inherent in the "logic of the situation" and the knowledge of individuals, there will be no performance. Unless each also has a decision-making authority beyond which there is no appeal, there will be no decision. And the two different structures, each with a logic of its own, have to coexist in dynamic balance within the same organization. It is in this field of management that we have done the most work during the last half-century. We had never before faced the task of organizing and leading large knowledge organizations. We had to learn rapidly. No one who knows the field would maintain that we yet know much. Indeed, if there is any agreement in this hotly contested area, it is that tomorrow's organization structures will look different from any we know today. Yet work in management is by now no longer pioneering. What is taught under this name in our universities may be 90 per cent old wives' talesand the rest may be procedures rather than management. Still the main challenges in the area are sufficiently well known. We know, for instance, that we have to measure results. We also know that with the exception of business, we do not know how to measure results in most organizations. It may sound plausible to measure the effectiveness of a mental hospital by how well its bedsa scarce and expensive commodityare utilized. Yet a study of the mental hospitals of the Veterans' Administration brought out that this yardstick leads to mental patients' being kept in the hospitalwhich, therapeutically, is about the worst thing that can be done to them. Clearly, however, lack of utilization, that is, empty beds, would also not be the right yardstick. How then does one measure whether a mental hospital is doing a good job within the wretched limits of our knowledge of mental diseases? And how does one measure whether a university is doing a good job? By the jobs and salaries its students get twenty years after graduation? By that elusive myth, the "reputation" of this or that faculty which, only too often, is nothing but self-praise and good academic propaganda? By the number of Ph.D.'s or scientific prizes the alumni have earned? Or by the donations they make to their alma mater? Each such yardstick bespeaks a value judgment regarding the purpose of the universityand

a very narrow one at that. Even if these were the right objectives, such yardsticks measure performance just as dubiously as the count of bed utilization measures performance in the mental hospitals. We also have unsolved problems in respect to top management which is the crucial organ in any institution. We do not really know how to train, select, and test people before they are entrusted with the top jobs. Yet this is one decision that is usually almost impossible to undo once it has been maderegardless of the legal structure of the institution. It is also undesirable to have to undo such a decision fast. Instability at the top is as bad as incompetence at the top. General de Gaulle was absolutely right in his insistence that the ability of French Parliaments to overthrow any cabinet at any time was a fatal weakness of the French Republic. But he may also have lived long enough to demonstrate that the inability of an institution to get rid of a top man who has outlived his usefulness is just as serious and as dangerous. No one has been able to find a solution; indeed there is reason to believe that there is no solution. The top position requires an ability to make decisions and to assume command that cannot be tested except in the top job. Whatever we train and test for is also likely to be nullified by events. No chief executive, whether of a Great Power or of a boy-scout troop, has ever, in his tenure, had to tackle the problems for which he was selected and put in the job. The one thing that is known about the chief executive's job is that the challenges are always different from those that were foreseen when he took over. But there are also some fundamental philosophical issues that have been around for a long time. Should structure, i.e., constitution, be absolute and according to principles of organization? Or should it be focused on specific objectives and strategy, that is, tailored to the needs and the logic of the situation? How about the balance between efficiency and effectiveness in management? The two, it is clear, are not the same. But are they even easily compatible? To be concrete: There is a sharp clash today between stress on the efficiency of administration (as represented, above all, by the govern-

mental administrator and the accountant) and stress on effectiveness (which emphasizes results). The efficiency approach insists that results will come automatically if things are done right, and therefore mistrusts any deviation from proper procedure. The effectiveness approach, however, points out that in any social undertaking, 80 per cent of the results are achieved by the first 20 per cent of the effort and that the remaining 80 per cent of effort only produces 20 per cent of the results. Above all, the last 5 per cent of the results in any social activity require as much effort as the first 95 per cent. In the first approach, efforts are seen as central; in the second, results. In the first, the hallmark of good management is order. In the second, it is vitality. The efficiency approach sees administration as desirable and as the strength of an organization. The effectiveness approach sees it as support, a necessary evil to be confined to the minimum needed to prevent collapse. The efficiency approach wants to make mediocrity capable of producing predictable results again and again. It is based on a realistic view of men, and of men in organization. The effectiveness approach wants to liberate creative energy. This too is a realistic view of man. In short, whatever one's inclinationsand my own bias is all on the side of effectivenesswe need both approaches. If we let efficiency predominate, as governments tend to do, procedures will overgrow results. No defense contractor in the United States has ever been criticized either by the General Accounting Office or by Congress for hiring too many clerks or for filling out too many forms. But where we let effectiveness predominate, we are in danger of being tripped up by the slighted routine. Battles are not won because horses are properly shod; but as the old nursery rhyme for the junior accountant reminds us, "for want of a nail, the kingdom was lost." We do not truly understand how one manages knowledge for productive work. We do not yet truly understand how one integrates men of different knowledge and skills, each making a specific contribution, into one joint venture for common results. The knowledge worker makes possible modern organization. In turn, the emergence of organization has created the jobs and opportunities for the knowledge worker. But how to make knowledge productive we do not yet know. Where it is being done, it is by accident or by intuition. We have, in other words, a great deal to learn about management.

Indeed the great age of management as a discipline is probably still ahead. But the ''heroic age" in which the discipline was founded is behind us. It lay in the quarter-century before World War II. Then the basic thinking was being done by such men as the Frenchman Fayol, the Britishers Ian Hamilton and Urwick, and the American Alfred Sloan at General Motors, to name only a few of the pioneers. They made possible the great organizing feats of World War II in all combatant countries. Since then, in business and government as well as in the military, we have, by and large, only refined what was first learned in the twenties and thirties and first applied in the early forties. 3. The last field within the operational area is probably the one in which there is the least difference in organizations. This is the area of personal effectiveness within organizations. Organizations are legal fictions. By themselves they do nothing, decide nothing, plan nothing. Individuals do decide and plan. Above all, organizations only "act" insofar as the people act whom we commonly call "executives," that is, the people who are expected to make decisions that affect the results and performance of the organization. As I pointed out in an earlier book, * in the knowledge organization every knowledge worker is an "executive." The number of people who have to be effective for modern organization to perform is therefore very large and rapidly growing. The well-being of our entire society depends increasingly on the ability of these large numbers of knowledge workers to be effective in a true organization. And so, largely, do the achievement and satisfaction of the knowledge worker. Executive effectiveness is not only something the organization needs. It is not the formula for the "organization man" of popular myth. It is, above all, something the individual needs. For the organization must be his tool, while at the same time it produces the results that are needed by society and community. Executive effectiveness is not automatic. It is not "how to be successful without half trying." It is not even "how to be successful * The Effective Executive (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1967).

while trying." The organization is a new and different environment. It makes new and different demands on the executive. But it also gives him new and different opportunities. It does not require so much new behavior as it requires new understanding. Ultimately, it requires that the individual be able to make decisions that get the right things done. This demand is not made on people in traditional environments. The peasant is told by tradition what to do and how to do it. The craftsman had his guild practices that laid down the work, its sequence and its standards. But the executive in organization is not informed by his environment. He has to decide for himself. If he does not decide, he cannot achieve results. He is bound to be both unsuccessful and unfulfilled. So far management theory has given little attention to this area. We have stressed the abilities of the executive, his training, and his knowledge, but not his specific attribute, which is effectiveness. This is what the executive is expected to be, yet we do not know, by and large, what it means. All anyone knows is that few executives attain one-tenth of the effectiveness their abilities, their knowledge, and their industry deserve. Executive effectiveness will eventually occupy, in the theory of institutions, the place that, throughout the history of political theory, has been occupied by the discussion of the education of the ruler (to which tradition Machiavelli fully belongs, though his answers are different). The constitutional lawyers, the earlier exponents of what we now call "management," asked: "What structure does the polity require?" The thinkers and writers on the "education of the ruler'' (of whom Plato, in the Republic and in the Seventh Letter, was the first great name) asked, "what kind of man does the ruler have to be, and what does he have to do?" It is this question that is now being asked again when we talk of the "effective executive." Only we no longer talk of the "Prince," that is, of one man in a high place. In the knowledge organization one talks about a great many men. For in the knowledge organization, almost everybody occupies a "high place" in the traditional meaning of the term. These three areas: policy objectives and the measurement of performance against targets, management, and executive effectiveness are quite different. Yet they all belong to the same field and same dimen-

sion of organization. They all deal with the functioning of organization. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; Organization and the Quality of Life The "social responsibility of business" has become a favorite topic of journalists, of business leaders, of politicians, and of business schools. The ethics of organization is indeed a central concern of our times. But to speak of the "social responsibility of business" assumes that responsibility and irresponsibility are a problem for business alone. Clearly, however, they are central problems for all organizations. All institutions have power, and all of them exercise power. All of them need to take responsibility for their actions, therefore. The least responsible of our major institutions today is not business; it is the university. Of all our institutions, it probably has the greatest social impact. It has a monopoly position such as no other organization occupies. Once a young person has finished college, he has a multitude of career choices. But until then education controls him and controls his access to all the choices: the business corporation and the civil service, the professions and the hospital, and so on. Yet the university has not even realized that it has power. It has not even realized that it has impact and, therefore, a problem of responsibility. The New Left sees this clearly. It may not be enchanted by business, but it is positively hostile to the university and its authority. In any case, the approach from "responsibility" is too limited and therefore a misdirection. There is, as every constitutional lawyer knows, no such word as "responsibility" in the dictionary of politics. The word is "responsibility and authority." Whoever assumes "responsibility" asserts ''authority." Conversely, one is responsible for whatever one has authority over. To take responsibility where one has no authority is usurpation of power. The question, therefore, is not what are the "social responsibilities" of organizations. The question is what is the proper authority. What impacts do the organizations have because of their function? 1. Any institution has to have impact on society in order to carry out its mission. Similarly an institution has to be somewhere. This

means impacts on the local community and the natural environment. Every institution, moreover, employs people, which implies a good deal of authority over them. These impacts are necessary; we could not otherwise obtain the goods and services from business, the education from the schools, the new knowledge from the research labs, or the traffic control from local government. But they are not the purpose of the organization. They are incidental to it. These impacts then are a necessary evil in the fullest meaning of the phrase. We would most certainly not permit authority over people if we knew how to obtain without it the performance for the sake of which we maintain the institution. Indeed every manager, if he had sense, would be happy to get the job done without people. They are a nuisance. He does not want to be a "government." It only gets in the way of his doing his job. For the duke or the baron of yesterday, people were "subjects" and represented strength and wealth. For the hospital, the government agency or the business of today, people are "employees," and represent "cost.'' This is increasingly true of the modern military service as well, where firepower and mobility matter rather than numbers. The first law of "social responsibility" is, therefore, to limit impacts on people as much as possible. And the same is true for all other impacts. The impacts on society and community are interferences. They can be tolerated only if narrowly defined and interpreted strictly. In particular, to claim "loyalty" from employees is impermissible and illegitimate. The relationship is based on the employment contract which should be interpreted more narrowly than any other contract in law. This does not rule out affection, gratitude, friendship, mutual respect, and confidence between the organization and the people in its employ. These are valuable. But they are incidental and they have to be earned. The second law, perhaps even more important, is the duty to anticipate impact. It is the job of the organization to look ahead and to think through which of its impacts are likely to become social problems. And then it is the duty of the organization to try to prevent these undesirable side results. This is in the self-interest of the organization. Whenever an unde-

sirable impact is not prevented by the organization itself, it ultimately boomerangs. It leads to regulation, to punitive laws, and to outside interference. In the end, the annoying or damaging impact leads to a "scandal"; and laws that result from a "scandal" are invariably bad laws. They punish ninety-nine innocents to foil one miscreant. They penalize good practice, yet rarely prevent malpractice. They express emotion rather than reason. Conversely, whenever the leaders of an institution anticipate an impact and think through what needs to be done to prevent it or to make it acceptable, they are given a respectful hearing by the public and the politicians. This is particularly true of business. Whenever business leaders have anticipated an impact of business and have thought through its prevention or treatment, their proposals have been accepted. Whenever they have waited until there was a "scandal," and a public outcry, they have been saddled with punitive regulation which, only too often, has aggravated the problem. Examples abound. It is for instance not true that the American automobile industry has not been safety-conscious. On the contrary, it pioneered in safe-driving instruction and in the design of safe highways. It did a great deal to reduce the frequency of accidentsand with considerable success. What it is being penalized for today, however, is its failure to make an accident itself less dangerous. Yet when the manufacturers tried to introduce safety-engineered cars (as Ford did in the early fifties) the public refused to buy them. The automobile manufacturers bitterly resent as rank ingratitude that they are being blamed for unsafe cars, subjected to punitive legislation, and held up to public scorn. Similarly, the electric utilities resent that they are being blamed for air pollution today. For many years leading utilities had been trying to convince the regulatory agencies that they should be allowed to use cleaner fuel despite its higher cost and to install air purification equipment. The regulatory agencies, however, concerned only with the cost of power, never gave the necessary permission. Tomorrow the academicians are going to complain that they are being pilloried for the damage the Ph.D. system does to society and education. They will point out that society imposes the system on them, and that, in particular, the public demands that the tax-supported public institutions employ teachers with the Ph.D. degree.

But no one else is going to feel sorry for the automobile industry, the electric power industry, or the academicians. They are indeed not to blame for unsafe cars, polluted air, or the Ph.D. blight in the sense that they caused it. Theirs is a greater blame: They have not lived up to the demands of leadership. It is the task of the leader to anticipate. It is not sufficient for him to claim that the crowd went the wrong way. It is his job to find the right way and to lead the crowd. When Ford found that the American public did not buy safety-engineered cars but switched to competitive makes without safety features, Ford had no choice but to produce what the public was willing to pay for. Similarly, the individual university cannot, as a rule, drop the Ph.D. requirement without catastrophic harm to its standing and its scholarly reputation. But this is all the more reason to go to work on designing the right public policy and getting it accepted. Whatever can be done only if everybody does it requires law. "Voluntary effort" in which everyone has to do something that in the short run is risky and unpopular has never succeeded. There is generally, in every group, at least one member who is stupid, greedy, and shortsighted. If one waits for "voluntary action" on the part of everyone, one never acts. The individual organization that anticipates a problem has, therefore, the duty of doing the unpopular: to think the problem through, to formulate a solution, and to lobby for the right public policy despite open disapproval by other "members of the club.'' No one who has taken this responsibility has ever failedor ever suffered. But whenever an institution shrinks back, pleading "the public won't let us," or "the industry won't let us" it pays a heavy price in the end. The public will forgive blindness. It will not forgive failure to act on one's own best knowledge. This is rightly considered cowardice. 2. Ideally an organization converts into opportunities for its own performance the satisfaction of social needs and wants, including those created by its own impacts. In pluralist society every organization is expected to be an entrepreneur in the traditional meaning of the term, that is, the agent of society which shifts resources from less productive to more productive employment. Each organization defines "productive" in terms of its own area of performance. Each,

therefore, measures results differently. But all of them have the same task. This means, in particular, that it is an ethical demand on business to convert into profitable business the satisfaction of social needs and wants. George Champion, chairman of the world's second largest bank, New York's Chase Manhattan, pleaded in the Harvard Business Review * for creative entrepreneurship in satisfying the needs and wants of the poor in the urban ghetto. These needsin education or in housinghe argued, should lead to the creation of new and highly profitable businesses which at the same time would overcome the urban ills. George Champion is not exactly known as a liberal. Yet his proposed business solutions were quite a bit more radical than those of the advanced civil-rights liberals. The needs and wants of society should be opportunities to every institution. The rising cost of health care is a major opportunity for the hospital. It demands innovation and entrepreneurial leadership on the part of hospital administrators; but this is, after all, what they are paid for. The needs of modern society for education both for excellence and competence offer a major entrepreneurial challenge and opportunity to the schools. This aspect of the "social responsibilities of organizations"the anticipation of social needs and their conversion into opportunities for performance and resultsmay be particularly important in a period of discontinuity such as we are facing. For the last fifty years or so, these opportunities were not common. The major challenge to all institutions lay in doing better what was already being done. Opportunities for tackling new and different things, whether in business, in health care, or in education were scarce. But this was not always so. A hundred years ago the great entrepreneurial opportunities lay, like those of today, in the satisfaction of social needs and wants. To make education into a profitable large business, or to make urban housing into such a business, may strike people todaybusinessmen as well as their criticsas rather outlandish. But these are not too different from the opportunities that * "Creative Competition," MayJune, 1967.

led to the development of the modern electrical industry, the telephone, the big-city newspaper and the book publisher, the department store, or to urban transit. All those were community wants a hundred years ago. They all required vision and entrepreneurial courage. They all required a considerable amount of new technology and also a good deal of social innovation. They all were needs of the individual which could only be satisfied on a mass basis. These needs were not satisfied because they were seen as "burdens," that is, as "responsibilities." They were satisfied because they were seen as opportunities. To seek opportunity, in other words, is the ethics of organization. Organizations, to sum up, do not act "socially responsible" when they concern themselves with "social problems" outside of their own sphere of competence and action. They act "socially responsible" when they satisfy society's needs through concentration on their own specific job. They act the most responsibly when they convert public need into their own achievements. Social awareness is organizational self-interest. The needs of society, if left unfilled, turn into social diseases. No institution, whether business or hospital, university or government agency, is likely to thrive in a diseased society. Social awareness is also incumbent upon the leaders of modern organizations. To be the leader of one of these institutions means to be one of the leaders in our pluralist society. The individual institution may be "private," but the people at the head of the university, the hospital, the government agency, the business corporation, are "public." Leadership in the society of organizations is not a function of position in society. It is a function of position in society's organs, the diverse pluralist organizations. Society, in turn, has a right to expect the executives of its major organizations to anticipate major social problems and to work at their solution. Society can expect these men to take leadership responsibility. For the executives of these organizations have taken the place of the elites of the past, whether nobility or millionaires. They are not noblesse and must not say noblesse oblige. They owe their leadership position to proven competence in social affairs. Hence it is only natural for society to look to them to think through solutions to serious social problems and social needs.

The best way for business and its leaders is to make the satisfaction of a social need an opportunity for a profitable new business. The right way for the school is to make the satisfaction of a social need an opportunity for better teaching and better learning; the right way for the hospital is to convert social need into an opportunity for better and more effective health care; and so on. These institutions and their leaders would best discharge their "social responsibility" if we never had to use that term. The great new fact is that a society of organizations holds institutions and their executives not only accountable for quantitieswhether of goods, or of cures, or of degree-recipients. It holds its institutions collectively accountable for the quality of life. This is above all new opportunity for the organization and its executives, a new dimension of performance and resultsbut also a new and rather frightening challenge. The Legitimacy of Organizations The great majority of people, and especially the overwhelming majority of the educated people in our society, are employees of large organizations. As such, the organization exercises, of necessity, considerable authority over them. It is, in fact, the one immediate authority for most of them. There are also the students of the schools, colleges, and universities, and a great many other publics who are inexorably subject to direction and control by one or more of these institutions. The legitimacy of organizational power and of organization-managementswhether of government agency, of hospital, of university, or of businessis, therefore, a problem. It is the political problem of the society of organizations. However, the organizations of our pluralist society are not and cannot be genuine communities. The aim of true community is always to fulfill itself. But within itself today organization has no aim, just as within itself it has no results. All it has within itself are costs. * * At first sight, this may seem not to apply to the university. It proudly calls itself a "community of scholars" and claims that it is an end in itself. But this is, of course, why today's students rebel against the traditional university. They demand that the university serve an outside need, namely, the students' learning need. In an "educated society," in which knowledge is becoming the central resource, the traditional self-serving "community of scholars" is no longer tenable, if indeed it ever existed.

The comparison of management, whether in business, in the university, the government agency, or in the hospital, with a true "government," which is done so entertainingly in Management &amp; Machiavelli, is, therefore, half-truth. The managements of modern social institutions (including the government agency that administers, e.g., a post office) are not "governments." Their job is functional rather than political. Such power and authority as they have, they exercise to satisfy one partial need of society. Unlike earlier pluralist powers, their sphere is not the totality of social and community needs or of social and community resources. Their sphere is one specific social demand and want. Their command is over resources allocated to a specific and limited, though vital, task. Whatever capacity to perform these institutions enjoy, they owe to their specialization, to their confinement to one limited task, and to their investment of their resources in a specific definable and limited purpose. What this means, above all, is that their leaders, the heads of these organizations, cannot base their position, power, and authority on any traditional principle of legitimacy. They cannot, for instance, base their authority on the "consent of the governed." For the "governed" are not and cannot be, as in a true political society, the beneficiaries and the purpose of the "government." The large business corporation does not exist for the sake of the employees. Its results lie outside and are only tangentially affected by employee approval, consent, and attitude. Similarly the hospital's "constituency" is not the people who work in the hospital, but the patients. This holds true for every one of the institutions of pluralist society, including the government agency. Whether the financial policies they administer are in the best interest of the employees of the Treasury Department is not very relevant. The members of organizations, whether employees or students, should be expected to take the largest possible responsibility for managing the community life of their institutions. A great deal of what managements are doing today is not related to performance and function. Why management should run the plant cafeteria, for instance, or be concerned with maintaining student discipline, is not very clear. And there are many other areas where community self-government can and should take over.

Altogether a wise management does not speak of "management prerogatives." It does not even think of them. It limits itself to the spheres of direct relevance to its central task. Everything else it tries to unload. Wherever even serious malfunction would not endanger the attainment of the organization's objectivestudent discipline is an examplethe wise executive says, "This is your job." * It is also highly desirable to bring these "members" of organization as far as possible into the decision-making process. Otherwise they cannot acquire any understanding of the realities of their institution. It came, for instance, as quite a shock to the workers who were elected to the boards of German steel companies to find out that profits, at their lushest, are a fraction of wages, that prices are determined by competition rather than by management, and that jobs depend on the company's ability to invest capital. Similarly, it always comes as a shock to students sitting on a curriculum committee with faculty and administrators to find out how stubborn and complex the apparently simplest question of educational policy always is. Precisely because organization is complex, the outsider rarely understands what really goes on "upstairs." Without such understanding organization is always endangered. And we know that participation in the actual decision-making process is the only way to acquire the rudiments of understanding. Organization, in its own interest, needs to force the utmost responsibility on its members. But in the areas that directly affect standards, performance, and results of the institution, the members cannot take over. There, the standards, the performance, and the results must rule them. What is done, and how, is largely determined by what outsiders want and need. It is largely determined by "discipline," whether that of a science or of the marketplace. The vote of General Motors workers on a new automobile design would be totally irrelevant. What matters is whether the consumer buys it or not. The old response of the Left to this is, of course, the demand that these institutions be "legitimized" by being taken over by the "political sovereign," the state. Their managers would then be appointed by * On this see my The New Society (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1950), especially Part Eight.

legitimate political authority and derive their power from the true sovereign. Experience has shown this to be naive sophistry. All that really happens is that the same losses, which formerly were censured as horrible examples of mismanagement, now become highly desirable contributions to social welfare. Government ownership or government appointment of managers does not alter the function of institutions. The moment organizations begin to discharge their function they are outside of effective political control by government. Indeed they have to be outside of it to perform. They have to be controlled by function and measured by performance. The most instructive lesson is surely that of the laboratory of post-Marxist socialismYugoslavia. There government, to enable the economy to function, returned control of business to the enterprises themselves and specifically to workers' councils elected by the plant. But the workers soon found out that they had to hand over management to trained, qualified, and autonomous executives if the plant was to produce goods and to produce jobs. Wherever Yugoslav industry is performing adequately, the control is functional and technical rather than by government or by "consent of the governed" in the plant. Performance is in the saddle and decides. What applies to the "consent of the governed" applies to every other known principle of political legitimacy. Of course, an institution whose members reject it altogether cannot function. The institution must make it possible for its members to achieve their own ends. We have long known that modern organization must give its members status and function. * But the members must also serve and accomplish the institution's purposes, which can never be their own. To satisfy their members is not and can never be the first task or the test of the pluralist organizations of our society. They must satisfy people outside, must serve a purpose outside, must achieve results outside. At best, they can integrate and harmonize the ends, values, and wants of their members with the demands of their mission. But the mission comes first. It is given. It is objective. It is impersonal. It * For a fuller discussion, see my books, Concept of the Corporation (New York: John Day, 1946) and The New Society (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1950).

is, at the same time, specific, limited, and aimed at only one of the many needs and wants of society, community, and individual. It is this dedication to one limited purpose of larger society that makes our modern organization effective. Clearly there is only one foundation for the authority which our organizations and their managements must have: performance. It is the only reason that we have them at all. It is the only reason why we can tolerate their exercise of power and their demand for authority. Specifically, this means that we need to know what "performance" means for this or that institution. We need to be able to measure, or at least to judge, the discharge of its responsibility by an institution and the competence of its management. We need to insist that institutions and their managements confine themselves to the specific tasks whose performance justifies their existence and their power. Everything beyond is usurpation. Concentration on the specific task emerges as the key to strength, performance, and legitimacy of organization in the pluralist society. Opinions can and should differ as to the specific task of a particular organization. The definition will change as circumstances, social needs, community values, and technologies change. Indeed different institutions of the same kind, e.g., different universities within a country, might define their objectives quite differently, as should different businesses within an industry, or even different hospitals. But each of them will be stronger the more clearly it defines its objectives. It will be more effective the more specific the yardsticks and measurements against which its performance can be appraised. It will be more legitimate the more strictly it bases its authority on justification by performance. "By their fruits ye shall know them" this might well be the fundamental constitutional principle of the new pluralist society.

10 The Sickness of Government Government surely has never been more prominent than today. The most despotic government of 1900 would not have dared probe into the private affairs of its citizens as income-tax collectors now do routinely in the freest society. Even the Czar's secret police did not go in for the security investigations we now take for granted. Nor could any bureaucrat of 1900 have imagined the questionnaires that governments now expect businesses, universities, or citizens to fill out in ever-mounting number and ever-increasing detail. At the same time, government has everywhere become the largest employer. Government is certainly all-pervasive. But is it truly strong? Or is it only big? There is mounting evidence that government is big rather than strong; that it is fat and flabby rather than powerful; that it costs a great deal but does not achieve much. There is mounting evidence also that the citizen less and less believes in government and is increasingly disenchanted with it. Indeed, government is sickand just at the time when we need a strong, healthy, and vigorous government. There is certainly little respect for government among the youngand even less love. But, the adults, the taxpayers, are also increasingly disenchanted. They still want more services from government. But they are everywhere approaching the point where they balk at paying

for a bigger government, even though they may still want what government promises to give. The disenchantment with government cuts across national boundaries and ideological lines. It is as prevalent in Communist as in democratic societies, as common in white as in nonwhite countries. This disenchantment may well be the most profound discontinuity in the world around us. It marks a sharp change in mood and attitude between this generation and its predecessors. In the seventy years or so from the 1890's to the 1960's, mankind, especially in the developed countries, was hypnotized by government. We were in love with it and saw no limits to its abilities, or to its good intentions. Rarely has there been a more torrid political love affair than that between government and the generations that reached manhood between 1918 and 1960. Anything anyone felt needed doing during this period was to be turned over to governmentand this, everyone seemed to believe, made sure that the job was already done. The Fabians in Great Britain or the German Social Democrats started their love affair with government before 1900. It became general with World War I when government, using taxation and the printing press, mobilized social resources way beyond what anyone earlier would have thought possible. The German war economy, the War Production Board in the United States, and the United States propaganda machine dazzled contemporaries. It convinced them that government could do anything. When the Great Depression hit a decade later, everybody immediately turned to government as the savior. It is pathetic to recall the naive belief that prevailed in the late thirtiessuch, for instance, as was preached in one of the best-sellers of the depression years, To Plan or Not to Plan, by the British Labour economist Barbara Wooton. The book's author, honored by the British government with a life peerage as Lady Wooton, is still alive and active. But nothing is more remote from us today, or less appealing, than the messianic innocence of this fervent love letter to government. All it says, and it says it on every page, is: "Utopia is hereall that's needed is to take everything away from the wicked, selfish interests and to turn it over to government." World War II reinforced this belief. Again government proved

itself incredibly effective in organizing the energies of society for warfare. But now our attitudes are in transition. We are rapidly moving to doubt and distrust of government and, in the case of the young, even to rebellion against it. We still, if only out of habit, turn social tasks over to government. We still revise unsuccessful programs over and over again, and assert that nothing is wrong with them that a change in procedures or ''competent administration" will not cure. But we no longer believe these promises when we reform a bungled program for the third time. Who, for instance, believes any more that administrative changes in the foreign aid program of the United States (or of the United Nations) will really produce rapid worldwide development? Who really believes that the War on Poverty will vanquish poverty in the cities? Or who, in Russia, really believes that a new program of incentives will make the collective farm productive? We still repeat the slogans of yesteryear. Indeed, we still act on them. But we no longer believe in them. We no longer expect results from government. What was a torrid romance between the people and government for so very long has now become a tired, middle-aged liaison that we do not quite know how to break off but that only becomes exacerbated by being dragged out. What explains this disenchantment with government? We expected miraclesand that always produces disillusionment. Government, it was widely believed (though only subconsciously), would produce a great many things for nothing. Cost was thought a function of who did something rather than of what was being attempted. There is little doubt, for instance, that the British in adopting the "free health service" believed that medical care would cost nothing. All the health service is and can be is, of course, "prepaid" medical care. Nurses, doctors, hospitals, drugs, and so on have to be paid for by somebody. But everybody expected this "somebody" to be somebody else. At the least, everyone expected that under a "free" health service the taxes of the rich would pay for the health care of the poor. There are, of course, never enough rich people around to carry the burden of any general service. Indeed both in the British Health

Service and in American Social Security (and generally in services of this kind) the rich are subsidized by the working and lower-middle class. In such a service everybody, as a rule, pays the same contribution through his taxes. In proportion to their wealth and income, the rich therefore pay less than lower income groups. Financing nationalized services is a classic example of what the economists call "regressive taxation," the burden of which declines with rising income. This is not an argument against such services. A mass basis is the only way to finance what everyone should have. Nor are such services necessarily inefficient. But they are not "free"and their cost is inevitably high, since they have to provide for contingencies and benefits for everyone even though only a minority may ever require a particular benefit. It is no accident that the most economical and effective health service today is not the "free" British service nor American Medicare. It is the much older German Health Insurance under which the individual is compelled to sign up for prepaid medical care but left free, in large measure, to choose between a great variety of plans, both public and private. All such plans are, in effect, taxation and compulsory saving that force the individual to pay for something whether he wants it or not. This is their whole rationale. But obvious though this may seem, the illusion that government could somehow make costs go away and produce a great deal for nothing was almost universal during the last half-century. And the distributive fallacy which assumes that government distribution of wealth solves economic problems that are rooted in inadequate productivity is still far from dead (as said earlier in Chapter 6). This belief was, in effect, only one facet of a much more general illusion from which the educated and the intellectuals in particular suffered: that by turning tasks over to government, conflict and decision would be made to go away. Once the "wicked private interests" had been eliminated, the right course of action would emerge from the "facts," and decision would be rational and automatic. There would be neither selfishness nor political passion. Belief in government was thus largely a romantic escape from politics and responsibility. One root of this argument was hatred of business, of profit and, above all, of wealth. Anothermore dangerousroot was the rejec-

tion of responsibility and decision that played such a major role in the rise of Fascism and Nazism and in their attraction for so many otherwise sane people. Erich Fromm, in his first book (1940), called it Escape from Freedom. That motives other than the desire for monetary gain could underlie self-interests and that values other than financial values could underlie conflict, did not occur to the generation of the thirties. Theirs was a world in which economics seemed to be the one obstacle to the millennium. Power did not appear in their vision, though this blindness in the decade of Hitler and Stalin is hard to imagine, let alone to understand. C. P. Snow's description in The Masters (1951) of the conflict for power within the "self-less" and "disinterested" small community of a college in Cambridge or Oxford profoundly shocked the sensibilities of a generation that had grown up believing that conflicts were always motivated by economic self-interest and could be avoided by eliminating gain, that is, by nationalizing the economy. One need not be in favor of free enterpriselet alone a friend of wealthto see the fallacy in this argument. But reason had little to do with the belief in government ownership as the panacea. The argument was simply: "private business and profits are bad ergo government ownership must be good." We may still believe in the premise; but we no longer accept the ergo of government ownership. The Labour government felt committed in 1967 to renationalize the British steel industry (just at the time when, ironically, the industry was on the verge of long-term decline, and when, therefore, takeover by government meant the highest possible windfall profit for the shareholders). But it immediately declared that the industry would have to be run for profit and put in as chief executive the purest of archcapitalists, Lord Melchett, heir to one of the world's great industrial fortunes (his grandfather and father founded and built Imperial Chemical Industries), a hereditary peer, and a top-flight investment banker, in addition to being a lifelong Tory! By contrast, less than twenty years earlier, when steel was first nationalized in Britain by an earlier Labour government, an ideologically "pure" trade-union stalwart had been the chief-executive-designate. There is still a good deal of resistance to the responsibility of politics and resentment of the burden of decision. Indeed, the young

today want to drop out altogetherin a frightening revival of the hostility to responsibility that made the younger generation of forty years ago so receptive to totalitarian promises and slogans. But no one, least of all the young, believes any more that the conflicts, the decisions, the problems would be eliminated by turning things over to government. Government, on the contrary, has itself become one of the wicked "vested interests" for the young. And few even of the older generation expect any more that the political millennium will result from government control. The Soviet press still writes routinely that under "socialism" there can be no tension between management and labor in industry except as a "remnant of capitalism." But no one in Russia or in the satellite countries of Eastern Europe takes this seriously. Labor conflict is routinely reported in the news stories that appear in the column next to the editorial on the "remnants of capitalism." Similarly, in the West no one any more believes that by nationalizing this or that industry or by turning over this or that social task to government, decisions have been eliminated and conflicts have been aborted. No one would be shocked any more by the plot of C. P. Snow's book, or for another instance, by the disclosures of how bitterly the various Nazi factions struggled over each decision behind the propaganda façade of unity. In fact, most of us today realize that to turn an area over to government creates conflict, creates vested and selfish interests, and complicates decisions. We realize that to turn something over to government makes it political instead of abolishing politics. When the garbage collectors went on strike against the City of New York in the winter of 1968, many good liberals seriously proposed turning garbage collection over to "free enterprise" to "ease the tension." We realize, in other words, that government is no alternative to decision. It does not replace conflict of interests by rational decision making. But the greatest factor in the disenchantment with government is that government has not performed. The record over these last thirty or forty years has been dismal. Government has proved itself capable of doing only two things with great effectiveness. It can wage war. And it can inflate the currency. Other things it can promise but only rarely accomplish. Its record as an industrial manager, in the satellite countries of Eastern Europe as well as in the nationalized industries

of Great Britain, has been depressing. Whether private enterprise would have done worse is not even relevant. For we expected perfection from government as industrial manager. Instead we only rarely obtained even below-average mediocrity. Government as a planner has hardly done much better (whether in Communist Czechoslovakia or in de Gaulle's capitalist France). But the greatest disappointment, the great letdown, is the fiasco of the welfare state. Not many people would want to do without the social services and welfare benefits of an affluent modern industrial society. But the welfare state promised a great deal more than to provide social services. It promised to create a new and happy society. It promised to release creative energies. It promised to do away with ugliness and envy and strife. No matter how well it is doing its jobsand in some areas in some countries some jobs are being done very wellthe welfare state turns out at best to be just another big insurance company, as exciting, as creative, and as inspiring as insurance companies tend to be. No one has ever laid down his life for an insurance policy. This explains why President Johnson's spectacular performance in enacting the unfinished welfare tasks of the New Deal failed to make him a hero with the public. It also explains why the equally spectacular failure of his predecessor to get the same measures through Congress did President Kennedy no political harm whatever, not even with the old New Deal faithful in the trade unions. The best we get from government in the welfare state is competent mediocrity. More often we do not even get that; we get incompetence such as we would not tolerate in an insurance company. In every country there are big areas of government administration where there is no performance whateveronly costs. This is true not only of the mess of the big cities, which no governmentUnited States, British, Japanese, or Russianhas been able to handle. It is true in education. It is true in transportation. And the more we expand the welfare state the less capable even of routine mediocrity does it seem to become. I do not know whether Americans are particularly inept at public

administrationthough they are hardly particularly gifted for it. Perhaps we are only more sensitive than other people to incompetence and arrogance of bureaucracy because we have had, until recently, comparatively so much less of it than other people. But no matter how bad others might be, it is hard to conceive anything more chaotic than the huge, blundering, disorganized establishment of an American embassy even in a small countryboth totally unmanaged and totally overadministered. During the past three decades, federal payments to the big cities have increased almost a hundredfold for all kinds of programs. But results from the incredible dollar flood into the cities are singularly unimpressive. What is impressive is the administrative incompetence. We now have ten times as many government agencies concerned with city problems as we had in 1939. We have increased by a factor of a thousand or so the number of reports and papers that have to be filled out before anything can be done in the city. Social workers in New York City spend some 70 or 80 per cent of their time filling out papers; for Washington, for the state government in Albany, and for New York City. No more than 20 or 30 per cent of their time, that is about an hour and a half a day, is available for their clients, the poor. As James Reston reported in the New York Times (November 23, 1966), there were then 170 different federal aid programs on the books, financed by over 400 separate appropriations and administered by 21 federal departments and agencies aided by 150 Washington bureaus and over 400 regional offices. One congressional session alone passed 20 new health programs, 17 new educational programs, 15 new economic development programs, 12 new programs for the cities, 17 new resources development programs, and 4 new manpower training programs, each with its own administrative machinery. This is not perhaps a fair exampleeven of American administrative incompetence. That we speak of "urban crisis" when we face a problem of race, that is, of the conscience, explains a lot of our troubles. Even the stoutest advocate of the welfare state never expected fundamental problems of conscience to yield to social policy and effective administration (though he probably would have argued

that there are no "problems of conscience" and that everything is a "social problem" and, above all, a matter of spending money). But in other areas, the welfare state does not perform much better. Nor is the administrative mess a peculiarly American phenomenon. The daily press in Great Britain, in Germany, in Japan, in France, in Scandinaviaand increasingly in the Communist countries as wellreports the same confusion, the same lack of performance, the same proliferation of agencies, of programs, of forms, and the same triumph of accounting rules over results. Everywhere rivalry between various agencies is replacing concern with results and with responsibility. Modern government has become ungovernable. There is no government today that can still claim control of its bureaucracy and of its various agencies. Government agencies are all becoming autonomous, ends in themselves, and directed by their own desire for power, their own rationale, their own narrow vision rather than by national policy and by their own boss, the national government. This is a threat to the basic capacity of government to give direction and leadership. Increasingly policy is fragmented, and policy direction becomes divorced from execution. Execution is governed by the inertia of the large bureaucratic empires, rather than by policy. Bureaucrats keep on doing what their procedures prescribe. Their tendency, as is only human, is to identify what is in the best interest of the agency with what is right, and what fits administrative convenience with effectiveness. As a result the welfare state cannot set priorities. It cannot concentrate its tremendous resources, and therefore does not get anything done. The great achievement of the modern state, as it emerged in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, was unified policy control. The great constitutional struggles of the last three hundred years were over the control powers of the central government in a united and unified nation. But this political organ, no matter how it is selected, no longer exercises such control. The President of the United States may still be the most powerful ruler, more powerful than either the prime ministers of parliamentary regimes dependent upon a majority in parliament, or the dictators who

can be overthrown by conspiracies against them among the powerful factions within their totalitarian apparatus. And yet even the President of the United States cannot direct national policy any more. The various bureaucracies do much what they want to do. The Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, for instance, has been making its own policies and pursuing its own course these last twenty years, with little concern for what the incumbent President believes or orders. None of the Presidents we have had since Harry Truman would have agreed with the interpretation the Antitrust Division has given to the antitrust laws. The Soil Conservation Service and the Bureau of Reclamation, the Forestry Service and the Weather Bureau, the Federal Trade Commission and the Army Engineers have similarly become "independent" rather than "autonomous." Nor did Harold Wilson as Prime Minister, or his conservative predecessor, have more effective policy control. Obviously this is also the situation in Russia and in de Gaulle's France. Not so long ago policy control by the political organs of government could be taken for granted. Of course there were "strong" and "weak" presidents as there were "strong" and ''weak" prime ministers. A Franklin Roosevelt or a Winston Churchill could get things done that weaker men could not have accomplished. But this was not, people generally believed, because they knew how to make the bureaucracy do their bidding. It was because they had the courage of strong convictions, the willingness to lay down bold and effective policies, the ability to mobilize public vision. Today a "strong" president or a "strong" prime minister is not a man of strong policies; he is the man who knows how to make the lions of the bureaucracy do his bidding. John Kennedy had all the strength of conviction and all the boldness of a "strong" president; this is why he captured the imagination, especially of the young. He had, however, no impact whatever on the bureaucracy. He was a "strong" president in the traditional sense. But he was a singularly ineffectual one. His contemporary, Mr. Khrushchev in Russia, similarly failed to be effective despite his apparent boldness and his popular appeal. By contrast, bureaucratic men who have no policies and no leadership qualities emerge as effective; they somehow know how to make red

tape do their bidding. But then, of course, they use it for the one thing red tape is good for, i.e., to bundle up yesterday in neat packages. This growing disparity between apparent power and actual lack of control is perhaps the greatest crisis of government. We are very good at creating administrative agencies. But no sooner are they called into being than they become ends in themselves, acquire a "vested right" to grants from the Treasury and to continuing support by the taxpayer, and achieve immunity to political direction. No sooner, in other words, are they born than they defy public will and public policy. The crisis of government domestically is nothing compared to the crisis of government as an effective organ in international life. In the international arena government has all but disintegrated. The "sovereign state" no longer functions as the effective organ for political tasks. This is not happening, as the liberals would like to believe, because a political world community has transcended the narrow, petty boundaries of national states. On the contrary, the national state is everywhere in danger of collapsing into petty, parochial baronieswhether French Canada or an independent Flanders, Biafra in West Africa or Scots nationalism. To our grandparents around 1900 it was clear that the trend ran toward larger government units. It was clear to them that the national state created political organisms capable of effective cooperation in international society. This had been the lesson of nineteenth-century history. Indeed the century closed with the last "unification," though an imposed one: the taking over of the Boer Republics of South Africa by the British and their incorporation into the British Empire. Since then, the process has been one of steady fission. It began in the Balkan Wars which, undertaken to create larger unified countries, ended by creating more small ones. It has accelerated ever since. Even Czechoslovakia, the most successful of the new countries created in World War I, proved incapable of becoming the effective agent of unification but was torn apart by the strife of the national minoritiesGerman, Hungarian, and Slovakthat refused to be "unified." Not one of the new countries established since World War II has so far created the unified nation which to the nineteenth century was so

obviously the end-point of history. Instead we are getting tribal splinters, pretending to be national states, imposing on their citizens all the costs of a national state, driven by all the jealousies, resentments, and pride of a national statebut incapable of being an effective organ either of domestic government or of the international community. Increasingly, we are fragmenting the world into governmental pygmies, each endowed with tremendous power vis-à-vis its citizens, each perfectly capable of tyranny, but incapable of governing. In 1900 there were fewer than fifty sovereignties in the whole worldtwenty in Europe and twenty in the Americas, with the rest of the world having fewer than a dozen. World War I increased the number to about sixty. Now we have more than one hundred and sixty, with new "ministates" joining the ranks almost every month. Only on the American continents has there been no splintering of sovereignties. There the twenty-odd sovereignties of 1900 are still, by and large, the political reality of today (except in the rapidly fragmenting Caribbean area). Some of the new sovereignties are very large countries: India, Pakistan, Indonesia. But most of them are smaller than the Central American countries an earlier generation contemptuously dismissed as "banana republics," and much too small to discharge the minimum responsibilities of sovereignty. Today we have scores of "independent nations'' whose population is well below a million people. Indeed we have some whose population is hardly as large as a good-sized village. At the other end of the scale we have the "superpowers" whose very size and power debar them from having a national policy. They are concerned with everything, engaged everywhere, affected by every single political event no matter how remote or petty. But policy is choice and selection. If one cannot choose not to be engaged, one cannot have a policyand neither the United States nor Russia can, in effect, say: "We are not interested." The "superpowers" are the international version of the welfare state, and, like the welfare state, incapable of priorities or of accomplishments. The might of the superpowers is much too great to be used. If all one has at hand to swat flies is a hundred-ton drop hammer, one is defenseless. The superpowers, therefore, invariably overreactas

Russia has done in the satellite countries and as the United States has done in the Congo, in Santo Domingo, and perhaps in Vietnam. Yet they underachieve. Their might, while great enough to annihilate each otherand the rest of us into the bargainis inappropriate to the political task. They are too powerful to have allies; they can only have dependents. And one is always the prisoner of one's dependents, while being hated by them. Only a government totally bereft of moral authority and self-confidence would act the way the Russian government, in August 1968, reacted to the developments in Czechoslovakia. This means that decisions in the international sphere can no longer be made in an orderly and systematic fashion. It is no longer possible for any decision to be arrived at by negotiation, consultation, agreement. It can only be arrived at by dictation or by exhaustion. While force has, therefore, become infinitely more important in the international system, it has become infinitely less decisiveunless it be the ultimate force of a nuclear war that might destroy mankind. Decisions are also no longer effective. No longer can they be expected to be carried out. In the international sphere we have the same divorce of policy from execution that characterizes domestic government. We get more and more and more governments. But all this does is increase costs. For each of these sovereignties has to have its own foreign service, its own armed forces, and so on. With a multiplication of government agencies and costs has gone a steady decrease in effectiveness. And no government, whether its territory spans the continents or is smaller than one city block, can any longer discharge the first duty of government: protection from, and defense against, attack from outside. It is perfectly true that most of the new "ministates" are political absurdities, defenseless against the threat of instant annihilation. But so are the "superpowers" in this age of nuclear "overkill." With nuclear weapons being easy to make and, in effect, available to the smallest and weakest country, there is no "defense." There is onlyquestionably"deterrence'' by the threat of retaliation. But if government cannot defend its people, the first reason for the very existence of government has gone. This may be regarded as gross exaggeration. It certainly is not the picture the older generation still sees. But it is, increasingly, the

reality. It is the situation to which we react. And the young people, who are not, as we older ones are, influenced by the memories of our love affair with government, see the monstrosity of government, its disorganization, its lack of performance, and its impotence rather than the illusions the older generation still cherishes and still teaches in the classroom. What Government Cannot Do Yet never has strong, effective, truly performing government been needed more than in this dangerous world of ours. Never has it been needed more than in this pluralist society of organizations. Never has it been needed more than in the present world economy. We need government as the central institution in the society of organizations. We need an organ that expresses the common will and the common vision and enables each organization to make its own best contribution to society and citizen and yet to express common beliefs and common values. We need strong, effective governments in the international sphere so that we can make the sacrifices of sovereignty needed to give us working supranational institutions for world society and world economy. The answer to diversity is not uniformity. The answer is unity. We cannot hope to suppress the diversity of our society. Each of the pluralist institutions is needed. Each discharges a necessary economic task. We cannot, as I have tried to show, suppress the autonomy of these institutions. Their task makes them autonomous whether this is admitted by political rhetoric or not. We therefore have to create a focus of unity. This can only be provided by strong and effective government. This is even more apparent in the developing, the poor countries than it is in the developed countries of Europe, North America, and Asia. Effective government is a prerequisite of social and economic growth. We cannot wait until we have new political theory or until we fully understand this pluralist society of ours. We will not re-create the beautiful "Prince Charming" of government, or the all-wise economist-king of Barbara Wooton's To Plan or Not to Plan. But we should be able to come up with a competent, middle-aged profes-

sional who does his work from nine to five and does it welland who, at least, is respected as a "good provider," though the romance has long gone out of him. In the process, government may shed the megalomania that now obsesses it, and learn how to confine itself to realistic goals and to cut its promises to its capacity to deliver. Certain things are inherently difficult for government. Being by design a protective institution, it is not good at innovation. It cannot really abandon anything. The moment government undertakes anything, it becomes entrenched and permanent. Better administration will not alter this. Its inability to innovate is grounded in government's legitimate and necessary function as society's protective and conserving organ. A government activity, a government installation, and government employment become immediately built into the political process itself. This holds true whether we talk of a declining industry such as the nationalized British coal mines or the government-owned railroads of Europe and Japan. It holds equally true in Communist countries. No matter how bankrupt, for instance, the Stalinist economic policies have become in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, or Poland, any attempt to change them immediately runs into concern for the least productive industries which, of course, always have the most, the lowest paid, and the least skilledand, therefore, the most "deserving"workers. The inability of government to abandon anything is not limited to the economic sphere. We have known for well over a decade, for instance, that the military draft that served the United States well in a total war is immoral and demoralizing in a "cold war" or "limited war" period. No one defends our present system, yet we extend it year after year on a "temporary" basis. The same inability to abandon applies to research projects supported by government. It holds true as soon as government supports the arts. Every beneficiary of a government program immediately becomes a ''constituent." He immediately organizes himself for effective political action and for pressure upon the decision maker. All institutions, as I said in Chapter 9, find it hard to abandon yesterday's tasks and to stop doing the unproductive. All of man's institutionsand for that matter, all menare committed to what

they are used to and reluctant to accept that it no longer needs doing or that it does not produce results. But government is under far greater pressure to cling to yesterday than any other institution. Indeed the typical response of government to failure of an activity is to double its budget and staff. Nothing in history, for instance, can compare in futility with those prize blunders of the American government, its welfare policies and its farm policies. Both policies are largely responsible for the disease they are supposed to cure. We have known this for quite some timein the case of the farm program since before World War II, in the case of the welfare program certainly since 1950. The problem of the urban poor is undoubtedly vast. No city in history has ever been able to absorb an influx of such magnitude as the American cities have had to absorb since the end of World War II. Wherever it happened in the past, there was the same collapse of family, community, and local governmentin the cities of England in the late eighteenth century when the Irish came in; in the cities of North America around 1840, again with the coming of the Irish; in the cities of continental Europe later on, as for instance when the Czechs started to migrate in large numbers into the Vienna of the Hapsburgs in the closing years of the nineteenth century. The influx of almost 2 million rural Negroes and Puerto Ricans into New York City alone in less than a fifteen-year period exceeded any of these earlier migrations. It is unprecedented in the history of cities. But we certainly could not have done worse if we had done nothing at all. In fact, the nineteenth-century cities that did nothing did better. And so, these last twenty years, has São Paulo in Brazil, which, inundated by similar floods of rural, illiterate Negroes fresh from serfdom, did nothingand is in better shape than New York City. Our welfare policies were not designed to meet this problem. They were perfectly rationaland quite effectiveas measures for the temporary relief of competent people who were unemployed only because of the catastrophe of the Great Depression. Enacted in the mid-thirties, the relief policies had essentially finished their job by 1940. But being government programs they could not be abandoned. Far too massive a bureaucracy had been built. The emotional invest-

ment in these programs and in their slogan had become far too great. They had become "symbols" of the "New Deal." Small wonder, then, that we reached for them when the entirely different problem of the fifties arose, that is, when the rural Negro moved into the core city in large numbers. And small wonder that these programs did not work, that instead they aggravated the problem and increased the helplessness, the dependence, the despair of the Negro masses. For the rural Negro was not competent to manage if only given a job; he was not trained; and he was not already settled in the city in a stable family unit. But all we could do when relief failed to relieve was to double the budget and to double the number of people engaged in filling out forms. We could not detach ourselves from the program. We could not ask: "What is the problem, and what needs to be done?" The farm program tells the same story. It was designedalso in the thirtiesto save the family farmer and to restore his economic and social health. Instead it has subsidized his replacement by large, heavily capitalized, and highly productive "industrial farms." This may well be a more desirable result than the one the farm program was meantand is still meantto produce. But it was an abysmal failure in terms of the program's announced objectives. Yet again, to everybody's pained surprise, increasing the budget has only speeded up the disappearance of the family farm. Lest this be read as a criticism of the American government, let me add that this experience knows no distinction of race, creed, or nationality. The depressed-areas policy in Great Britain dates back to the twenties. In all that time it has not restored to economic health one single "depressed area." But it has effectively penalized the shift of labor to areas of higher productivity, higher wages, and better jobs. It has thereby slowed growth in the healthy regions. Yet wherever it is realized that the "depressed areas" are still depressed, the budget goes up. That the Swedes, faced with a similar problem, actually got rid of their "depressed areas" by subsidizing migration of labor out of them rather than, as the British do, migration of inefficient industry into them, is well

known in England. But it has made no impression on government or public in Britain. Similarly, the German Osthilfe designed after World War I to reconcile to the Republic the distressed East German landowners, the Junkers, and to help them to become productive farmers, had exactly the opposite effect. It only aggravated their plight while at the same time penalizing the productive farmers in Germany's West. It made both willing supporters of Hitler. Yet all that could ever be done politically was to raise the money spent on Osthilfe. This is not to say that all government programs are wrong, ineffectual or destructivefar from it. But even the best government program eventually outlives its usefulness. And then the response of government is likely to be: "Let's spend more on it and do more of it." Government is a poor manager. It is, of necessity, concerned with procedure, for it is also, of necessity, large and cumbersome. Government is also properly conscious of the fact that it administers public funds and must account for every penny. It has no choice but to be "bureaucratic"in the common usage of the term. Whether government is a "government of laws" or a "government of men" is debatable. But every government is, by definition, a "government of forms." This means, inevitably, high cost. For "control" of the last 10 per cent of phenomena always costs more than control of the first 90 per cent. If control tries to account for everything it becomes prohibitively expensive. Yet this is what government is always expected to do. The reason is not just "bureaucracy" and red tape; it is a much sounder one. A "little dishonesty" in government is a corrosive disease. It rapidly spreads to infect the whole body politic. Yet the temptation to dishonesty is always great. People of modest means and dependent on a salary handle very large public sums. People of modest position dispose of power and award contracts and privileges of tremendous importance to other peopleconstruction jobs, radio channels, air routes, zoning laws, building codes, and so on. To fear corruption in government is not irrational. This means, however, that government "bureaucracy"and its

consequent high costscannot be eliminated. Any government that is not a "government of forms" degenerates rapidly into a mutual looting society. The generation that was in love with the state thirty and forty years ago believed fondly that government would be economical. Eliminating the "profit motive" was thought to reduce costs. This was poor economics, to begin with. If there is competition, profit assures accomplishment of a task at the lowest cost. It is a measure and an index of the most economical allocation of resources, that is, of the optimum in terms of costs as well as of results. This is the reason why the Communist countries are all rushing now to reintroduce profitability into their system. This was, of course, known to the economists of thirty or forty years ago. But within an economic theory of equilibrium rather than of dynamics and growth, profit (as Chapter 7 explains) could be disregarded. And the inherent wastefulness of government had yet to be demonstrated. The politician's attention does not go to the 90 per cent of money and effort that is devoted to existing programs and activities. They are left to their own devices and to the tender mercies of mediocrity. Politicsrightlyis primarily concerned with "new programs." It is concerned with whatever is politically "hot." It is focused on crises and problems and issues. It is not focused on doing a job. Politics, whatever the form of government, is not congenial to managerial organization and makes government slight managerial performance. In government, loyalty is more important than performance, and has to be. Whatever the systemand in this respect there is little difference between presidential America, parliamentary England, and politburo Russiathe first question is "Whose man is he?" After that, and long before performance, come party allegiance and connections. In fact the man who does well but belongs to the wrong faction, or gives allegiance to the wrong person, is a major threat to the people in power. Nothing is disliked as muchand nothing is feared as muchas the outstanding man whose performance makes him independent of politicians and politics. Nothing is prized as much as the faithful follower. We have built elaborate safeguards to protect the administrative

structure within government against the political process. This is the purpose of every civil service. But while this protects the going machinery from the distortions and pressures of politics, it also protects the incumbents in the agencies from the demands of performance. Of course, we maintain officially that civil-service tenure is compatible with excellence. But, if we had to choose, we would probably say that mediocrity in the civil service is a lesser evil than politics. As far as the judiciary is concernedwhere we first created "independence"this is certainly true. How far it is true in administrative agencies is debatable. A good many people today have come to believe that we need some way of rewarding performance and of penalizing nonperformance, even within civil service. Still the premium within government will be on not "rocking the boat" in existing agencies, that is, on no innovation, no initiative, but rather on doing with proper procedures what has been done before. Within the political process attention will certainly not be paid to the ongoing, routine work, unless there is the publicized malfunction of a "scandal." As a result, management of the daily work of government will remain neglectedor be considered a matter of following "procedure" and of filling out forms. By excelling as a manager no one in politics will ever get to the top, unless at the same time he builds his own political machine, his own political following, his own faction. We canand mustgreatly improve the efficiency of government. There is little reason these days to insist on "100 per cent audit," for instance. Modern sampling methods based on probability mathematics actually give us better control by inspecting a small percentage of the events. We may even, one day, hope to get approval on the part of legislature, and understanding by the public, that no system as large as government can or should work at 100 per cent efficiency. An aim of 92 per cent performance is more realistic and can be attained at much lower cost. We may eventually understand that it does not matter if a government agency or a military service overpays $50,000 in a $50 billion budget, even though today this is seized upon as a horrible example of governmental laxity (and leads immediately to the employment of a hundred more bookkeepers). We may even get acceptance by government of the principle of management by exception, in which we only

audit where results deviate significantly from expectation, although experienced administrators in government may smile at such utopian naïveté. We need something much more urgently: the clear definition of the results a policy is expected to produce, and the ruthless examination of results against these expectations. We need to be forced to admit at an early stage that the relief policies or the farm policies of the United States government do not produce the intended benefits. This demands that we spell out in considerable detail what results are expected rather than content ourselves with promises and manifestos. In the last century, the auditor general became a central organ of every government. We learned that we needed an independent agency to control the daily process of government and to make sure that money appropriated was spent for what it was intended, and spent honestly. Now we may have to develop an independent government agency that compares the results of policies against expectations and that, independent of pressures from the Executive as well as from the Legislative branches, reports to the public any program that does not deliver. Robert McNamara's "cost/effectiveness" for the programs and policies of the American military forces may have been the first step in the development of such a new organ. And that President Johnson has introduced cost/ effectiveness into all United States government agencies may be one of the most significant events in American administrative history. We may even go furtherthough only a gross optimist would expect this today. We may build into government an automatic abandonment process. Instead of starting with the assumption that any program, any agency, and any activity is likely to be eternal, we might start out with the opposite assumption: that each is short-lived and temporary. We might, from the beginning, assume that it will come to an end within five or ten years unless specifically renewed. And we may discipline ourselves not to renew any program unless it has the results that it promised when first started. We may, let us hope, eventually build into government the capacity to appraise results and systematically to abandon yesterday's tasks. Yet such measures will still not convert government into a "doer."

They will not alter the main lesson of the last fifty years: government is not a "doer." And What It Could Be The purpose of government is to make fundamental decisions, and to make them effectively. The purpose of government is to focus the political energies of society. It is to dramatize issues. It is to present fundamental choices. The purpose of government, in other words, is to govern. This, as we have learned in other institutions, is incompatible with "doing." Any attempt to combine governing with "doing" on a large scale, paralyzes the decision-making capacity. Any attempt to have decision-making organs actually "do," also means very poor "doing." They are not focused on ''doing." They are not equipped for it. They are not fundamentally concerned with it. There is good reason today why soldiers, civil servants, and hospital administrators look to business management for concepts, principles, and practices. For business, during the last thirty years, has had to face, on a much smaller scale, the problem which modern government now faces: the incompatibility between "governing" and "doing." Business management learned that the two have to be separated, and that the top organ, the decision maker, has to be detached from "doing." Otherwise he does not make decisions, and the "doing" does not get done either. In business this goes by the name of "decentralization." The term is misleading. It implies a weakening of the central organ, the top management of a business. The purpose of decentralization as a principle of structure and constitutional order is, however, to make the center, the top management of a business, strong and capable of performing the central, the top-management, task. The purpose is to make it possible for top management to concentrate on decision making and direction by sloughing off the "doing" to operating managements, each with its own mission and goals, and with its own sphere of action and autonomy. If this lesson were applied to government, the other institutions of society would then rightly become the "doers." "Decentralization" applied to government would not be just another form of "federal-

ism" in which local rather than central government discharges the "doing" tasks. It would rather be a systematic policy of using the other, the nongovernmental institutions of the society of organizations, for the actual "doing," i.e., for performance, operations, execution. Such a policy might be called "reprivatization." The tasks which flowed to government in the last century because the original private institution of society, the family, could not discharge them, would be turned over to the new, nongovernmental institutions that have sprung up and grown these last sixty to seventy years. Government would start out by asking the question: "How do these institutions work and what can they do?" It would then ask: "How can political and social objectives be formulated and organized in such a manner as to become opportunities for performance for these institutions?" It would also ask: "And what opportunities for accomplishment of political objectives do the abilities and capacities of these institutions offer to government?" This would be a very different role for government from that it plays in traditional political theory. In all our theories government is the institution. If "reprivatization" were to be applied, however, government would become one institution albeit the central, the top, institution. Reprivatization would give us a different society from any our social theories now assume. In these theories government does not exist. It is outside of society. Under reprivatization government would become the central social institution. Political theory and social theory, for the last two hundred and fifty years, have been separate. If we applied to government and to society what we have learned about organization these last fifty years, the two would again come together. The nongovernmental institutionsuniversity, business, and hospital, for instancewould be seen as organs for the accomplishment of results. Government would be seen as society's resource for the determination of major objectives, and as the "conductor" of social diversity. I have deliberately used the term "conductor." It might not be too fanciful to compare the situation today with the development of music

two hundred years ago. The dominant musical figure of the early eighteenth century was the great organ virtuoso, especially in the Protestant north. In organ music, as a Buxtehude or a Bach practiced it, one instrument with one performer expressed the total range of music. But as a result, it required almost superhuman virtuosity to be a musician. By the end of the century, the organ virtuoso had disappeared. In his place was the modern orchestra. There each instrument played only one part, and a conductor up front pulled together all these diverse and divergent instruments into one score and one performance. As a result, what had seemed to be absolute limits to music suddenly disappeared. Even the small orchestra of Haydn could express a musical range far beyond the reach of the greatest organ virtuoso of a generation earlier. The conductor himself does not play an instrument. He need not even know how to play an instrument. His job is to know the capacity of each instrument and to evoke optimal performance from each. Instead of being the "performer," he has become the "conductor." Instead of "doing," he leads. The next major development in politics, and the one needed to make this middle-aged failureour tired, overextended, flabby, and impotent governmenteffective again, might therefore be reprivatization of the "doing," the performance of society's tasks. This need not mean "return to private ownership." Indeed, what is going on in the Communist satellite countries of Eastern Europe todayespecially in Yugoslaviais reprivatization in which ownership is not involved at all. Instead, autonomous businesses depend on the market for the sale of goods, the supply of labor, and the supply of capital. That their "ownership" is in the hands of the government is a legal rather than an economic factthough, of course, important. Yet to some Yugoslavs it does not appear to be incompatible with that ultrabourgeois institution, a stock exchange. What matters, in other words, is that institutions not be run by government but be autonomous. Cooperatives, for instance, are not considered "capitalist" in the Anglo-American countries, although they are "private" in that they are not run by government. And the same applies to "private" hospitals and the "private" universities. On the other hand, the German university has traditionally been almost

as autonomous as the American "private" university, even though it is a state institution. Reprivatization, therefore, may create social structures that are strikingly similar, though the laws in respect to ownership differ greatly from one country to another and from one institution to another. What they would have in common is a principle of performance rather than a principle of authority. In all of them the autonomous institution created for the performance of a major social task would be the "doer." Government would become increasingly the decision maker, the vision maker, the political organ. It would try to figure out how to structure a given political objective so as to make it attractive to one of the autonomous institutions. It would, in other words, be the "conductor" who tries to think through what each instrument is best designed to do. And just as we praise a composer for his ability to write "playable" music, which best uses the specific performance characteristic of French horn, violin, or flute, we may come to praise the lawmaker who best structures a particular task so as to make it most congenial for this or that of the autonomous, self-governing, private institutions of pluralist society. Business is likely to be only one, but a very important, institution in such a structure. Whether it be owned by the capitalist, that is, by the investor, or by a cooperative or a government, might even become a secondary consideration. For even if owned by government, it would have to be independent of government and autonomousas the Yugoslavs shownot only in its day-to-day management, but, perhaps more important, in its position in the market, and especially in a competitive capital market. What makes business particularly appropriate for reprivatization is that it is predominantly an organ of innovation; of all social institutions, it is the only one created for the express purpose of making and managing change. All other institutions were originally created to prevent, or at least to slow down, change. They become innovators only by necessity and most reluctantly. Specifically business has two advantages where government has major weaknesses. Business can abandon an activity. Indeed, it is forced to do so if it operates in a marketand even more, if it depends on a market for its supply of capital. There is a point beyond

which even the most stubborn businessman cannot argue with the market test, no matter how rich he may be himself. Even Henry Ford had to abandon the Model T when it no longer could be sold. Even his grandson had to abandon the Edsel. What is more: of all our institutions, business is the only one that society will let disappear. It takes a major catastrophe, a war, or a great revolution, to allow the disappearance of a university or of a hospital, no matter how superfluous and unproductive they might have become. Again and again, for instance, the Catholic Church in the United States attempts to close down hospitals that have ceased to be useful. In almost every case, a storm of community nostalgia forces the supposedly absolute bishop to retract his decision. Only a foreigner, a Canadian, sent as a provincial from the outside, could force the English Jesuits to abandon their boarding school even though it had become an anomaly. And this provincial had then to be pulled out of England fast and moved back to Canada. The Russians had the same experience when they tried, in the late forties, to consolidate a number of provincial universities. Even Stalin had to give in and rescind the order. But when the best-known airplane manufacturer in the United States, the Douglas Company, designer and producer of the DC-3 (or Dakota, as the military and the Europeans call it), was in difficulty in 1967, neither American public nor American government rushed to its rescue. If a competitor had not bought the company and merged it into his operations, we would have accepted the disappearance of Douglaswith regret, to be sure, and with a good deal of nostalgic rhetoric, but also with the feeling: "It's their own fault, after all." Precisely because business can make a profit, it must run the risk of loss. This risk, in turn, goes back to the second strength of business: alone among all institutions it has a test of performance. No matter how inadequate profitability is, it is a test for all to see. One can argue that this or that obsolete hospital is really needed in the community or that it will one day again be needed. One can argue that even the poorest university is better than none. The alumni or the community always has a "moral duty" to save "dear old Siwash."

The consumer, however, is unsentimental. It leaves him singularly unmoved to be told that he has a duty to buy the product of a company because it has been around a long time. The consumer always asks: "And what will the product do for me tomorrow?" If the answer is "Nothing," he will see its manufacturer disappear without the slightest regret. And so will the investor. This is the strength of business as an institution. It is the best reason for keeping it in private ownership. The argument that the capitalist should not be allowed to make profits is a popular one. But the real role of the capitalist is to be expendable. His role is to take risks and to take losses as a result. This role the private investor is much better equipped to discharge than the public one. We want privately owned business precisely because we want institutions that can go bankrupt and can disappear. We want at least one institution that, from the beginning, is adapted to change, one institution that has to prove its right to survival again and again. This is what business is designed for, precisely because it is designed to make and to manage change. If we want a really strong and effective government, therefore, we should want businesses that are not owned by government. We should want businesses in which private investors, motivated by their own self-interest and deciding on the basis of their own best judgment, take the risk of failure. The strongest argument for "private enterprise" is not the function of profit. The strongest argument is the function of loss. Because of it business is the most adaptable and the most flexible of the institutions around. It is the one that has a clear, even though limited, performance test. It is the one that has a yardstick. Therefore, it is the one best equipped to manage. For if there is a yardstick for results, one can determine the efficiency and adequacy of efforts. One can say in a business: "Our greatest profits are at a level where we control 95 per cent of the costs rather than where we control 99 per cent. Controlling and auditing the last 4 per cent or 5 per cent costs us much more than the profits from these marginal activities could ever be." One cannot say this with respect to patient care in a hospital. One cannot say this with respect to instruction in a

university. And one cannot say this in any government agency. There one has to guess, to judge, to have opinions. In a business one can measure. Business, therefore, is the most manageable of all these institutions, the one where we are most likely to find the right balance between results and the cost of efforts. It is the only institution where control need not be an emotional or a moral issue, where in talking "control" we discuss "value" and not "values." Reprivatization is still heretical doctrine. But it is no longer heretical practice. Reprivatization is hardly a creed of "fat cat millionaires" when black-power advocates seriously propose making education in the slums "competitive" by turning it over to private enterprise, competing for the tax dollar on the basis of proven performance in teaching ghetto children. It may be argued that the problems of the black ghetto in the American city are very peculiar problemsand so they are. They are extreme malfunctions of modern government. But, if reprivatization works in the extreme case, it is likely to work even better in less desperate ones. One instance of reprivatization in the international sphere is the World Bank. Though founded by governments, it is autonomous. It finances itself directly through selling its own securities on the capital markets. The International Monetary Fund, too, is reprivatization. Indeed, if we develop the money and credit system we need for the world economy, we will have effectively reprivatized creation and management of money and credit which have been considered for millennia attributes of sovereignty. Again business is well equipped to become the "doer" in the international sphere. The multinational corporation, for instance, is our best organ for rapid social and economic development through the "contract growing" of people and of capital. In the Communications Satellite Corporation (COMSAT) we are organizing worldwide communications (another traditional prerogative of the sovereign) as a multinational corporation. A Socialist government, the Labour government of Britain, has used reprivatization to bring cheap energy to Britainin contracts with the multinational oil companies for the exploration and development of the natural gas fields under the North Atlantic Ocean.

And the multinational corporation may be the only institution equipped to get performance where the fragmentation into tribal splinter units such as the "ministates" of Equatorial Africa makes performance by government impossible. But domestically as well as internationally business is, of course, only one institution and equipped to do only one task, the economic one. Indeed it is important (as discussed in Chapter 9) to confine businessand every other institutionto its own task. Reprivatization will, therefore, entail using other nongovernmental institutionsthe hospital, for instance, or the universityfor other, noneconomic "doing" tasks. Indeed the design of new nongovernmental, autonomous institutions as agents of social performance under reprivatization may well become a central job for tomorrow's political architects. We have the first beginnings of worldwide universitieswith their roots probably in the "extramural accreditation" which London University extended gradually to new institutions in the last decades of the British Empire. Today American universities are building more and more multinational institutions. There is also a group of aggressive new business schools throughout Latin America in which nine separate schools in nine different Latin countries run themselves increasingly as one institution with common goals, a common faculty, and interchanges of programs and students. Indeed the multinational university may be our best tool to stop, if not to reverse, the "brain drain." &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; We do not face a "withering away of the state." On the contrary, we need a vigorous, a strong, and a very active government. But we do face a choice between big but impotent government and a government that is strong because it confines itself to decision and direction and leaves the "doing" to others. We do not face a "return of laissez-faire" in which the economy is left alone. The economic sphere cannot and will not be considered to lie outside the public domain. But the choices for the economyas well as for all other sectorsare no longer either complete governmental indifference or complete governmental control. In all major areas we have a new choice in this pluralist society of

organizations: an organic diversity in which institutions are used to do what they are best equipped to do. This is a society in which all sectors are "affected with the public interest," while in each sector a specific institution, under its own management and dedicated to its own job, emerges as the organ of action and performance. This is a difficult and complex structure. Such symbiosis between institutions can work only if each disciplines itself to strict concentration on its own sphere, and to strict respect for the integrity of the other institutions. Each, to use again the analogy of the orchestra, must be content to play its own part. This will come hardest for government, especially after the last fifty years in which it had been encouraged in the belief of the eighteenth-century organ virtuoso that it couldand shouldplay all parts simultaneously. But every institution will have to learn the same lesson. Reprivatization will not weaken government. Indeed, its main purpose is to restore strength and performance capacity to sick and incapacitated government. We cannot go much further along the road on which government has been traveling these last fifty years. All we can get this way is more bureaucracy but not more performance. We can impose higher taxes but we cannot get dedication, support, and faith on the part of the public. Government can gain greater girth and more weight, but it cannot gain strength or intelligence. All that can happen, if we keep on going the way we have been going, is a worsening sickness of government and growing disenchantment with it. And this is the prescription for tyranny, that is, for a government organized against its own society. This can happen. It has happened often enough in history. But in a society of pluralist institutions it is not likely to be effective too long. The Communists tried it, and after fifty years have shownthough they have not yet fully learnedthat the structure of modern society and its tasks are incompatible with monolithic government. Monolithic government requires absolute dictatorship, which no one has ever been able to prolong much beyond the lifetime of one dictator. Ultimately we will need new political theory and probably very new constitutional law. We will need new concepts and new social theory. Whether we will get these and what they will look like, we

cannot know today. But we can know that we are disenchanted with government, primarily because it does not perform. We can say that we need, in pluralist society, a government that can and does govern. This is not a government that "does"; it is not a government that "administers"; it is a government that governs.

11 How Can the Individual Survive? Student unrest is nothing new. But the present alienation of the most privileged of today's society, the college youth, is something very new indeed. All earlier student outbreaks were local, and directed at specific institutions of an individual country or society. This was true in the major previous epoch of student unrest in the West, the rebellion of the students of continental Europe against absolutist government after the Napoleonic Wars. It ushered in long, bitter struggles in Russia, Germany, and Italy, but it evoked only a faint echo west of the Rhine, and England was not touched by it at all. Similarly the massive Chinese student unrest in the early years of the century, while eventually leading to the downfall of the Manchu Dynasty and to a half-century of civil war (which may not be over yet), was confined to one country. Even the large Chinese populations outside of mainland China were hardly affected by it. Today, however, there is a true ''student international." There is, of course, no central command, no common creed; but there is a common enemy. It is organization. Today's student "activists" are against organization and its authority in any form or shape. Above all, they oppose what used to be considered the "good guys" among organizations, university, and government. The young priests and

religious of the Catholic Church are equally opposed to the authority and organization of the Roman Curia. And that traditional symbol of rebellion, the Communist party, was one of the main targets of the French students and of the young among the French workers in the uprising against all authority in May 1968. The war in Vietnam and the racial troubles of the black ghetto may explain the rebellion of the young people of America. But they hardly explain why the Italian students storm their university buildings, or why the students of Poland and Yugoslavia battle with their respective regimes and their police. Nor do they explain the outbreaks of student rebellion in India and Indonesia, let alone the organized anarchism of the Chinese students who enrolled by the hundreds of thousands in Mao's "Cultural Revolution" against school, government, and Communist party authority. Clearly the "causes" only trigger the rebellion. They do not ''cause" it. The perception of the young that society has become a society of organizations, and that this is in striking contrast to the society of our textbooks, our political rhetoric, and our conventions is sound and realistic insight. The response, however, is futile. There is no sign that our society has decided to do without the services that only the organization can supply. We are not willing to do without defense or without education, without economic goods and services, or without health care. The organizations will not go away. Repudiating them is not going to make them disappear. It will not even reduce their power. Indeed, scorning power only makes it more oppressive. Power has to be used. It is a reality. If the decent and idealistic toss power in the gutter, the guttersnipes pick it up. If the able and educated refuse to exercise power responsibly, irresponsible and incompetent people take over the seats of the mighty and the levers of power. Power not being used for social purposes passes to people who use it for their own ends. At best, it is taken over by the careerists who are led by their own timidity into becoming arbitrary, autocratic, and bureaucratic. Anarchism is a valid philosophical position and perhaps the only "pure" political theory. The only trouble with it is that it does not

work. In practice it inevitably leads to oppression, the first victims of which are the philosophical anarchists themselves. But there is even greater danger in the rebellion against organization by the young people of today: their vulnerability to false leaders. It is not true that young people repudiate leadership. They seek leadership. They need leadership. If they cannot find it in the "establishment"not even within the "loyal opposition"they become easy prey to the demagogues. If one "cannot trust anyone over thirty,'' one trusts, in the end, someone who acts the juvenile. For one has to trust someone. There is a frightening resemblance between the student "activists" of today, with their slogans of "idealism" and "sincerity," and the German youth movement just before and just after World War I. The resemblance even extends to externals, to long hair, to folk songs, and to such slogans as "Make love, not war." Yet the idealistic, antiauthoritarian Wandervoegel of the German youth movementwho also did not trust "anyone over thirty"became in short order fanatical, dedicated, unquestioning Nazis and idolators of Hitler. The young want and need faith. And the demagogue is the specialist in "sincerity." The "activists" represent a tiny fraction of the youth of today. The "lunatic fringe," the "hippies," the "beats," and so on, are a smaller fraction still. The great majority of today's students will, as their predecessors did, settle speedily into the deep ruts of convention. They will soon enough conform to middle age as they now conform to "flaming youth." Maybe they will keep on complaining about the "organization man." But the young engineers, scientists andabove allthe young college professors who so desperately want to be "accepted" by the kids, are the ones who impose conformity on organization. No one is more conformist than the "conventionally unconventional." Students have always tended to be restless. Suddenly the number of students everywhere has tremendously increased. To a large extent, the present student unrest is but a symptom of the "educational explosion" as a result of which we now keep in school very large numbers of young people who, in earlier days, would have been at work.

That the great bulk of today's college students come from homes without tradition of higher education is in itself a major reason for student unrest. In that respect, today's student rebellion can be compared to the traditional rebellion of the second-generation American against the immigrant background of his parents. And just as these rebels from the Irish, Swedish, Jewish, or Italian homes soon settled down as comfortable members of American middle-class society, the students of today can be expected to settle down soon as middle-class members of educated society. The generation gap is particularly wide today. Societies are younger in their average age than they have been for a long time. Yet, because lifespanand especially working lifespanhas been greatly extended, a far larger number of older men is living much longer, and holding on much longer to positions of leadership and power. Never before in modern history have there been so many young educated people; yet never before has leadership been so old. Leadership in every institution and in every country is still held largely by a generation that has its roots in the era preceding World War I. Indeed, only in the last ten years have leadership positions passed into the hands of people even born in this century. In few eras was the gap in experience between generations greater than the one that divides those for whom World War I, the twenties, and the Great Depression were the formative experiences from those who were still children when World War II came to an end but who are today in their mid-thirties and well into middle age. For those who were born after World War II, the world of their elders, the world of the thirties and early forties, is almost unimaginable. Action and behavior based on these earlier experiences, that is, the action and behavior natural to the older generation, must seem to the young irrational, meaningless, and totally irrelevant. The alienation of the young could therefore be explained awayas confined to a small fraction; as nothing more than a fashionable pose and the current expression of the short-lived Weltschmerz, that common, but rarely fatal, disease of adolescence; or as an accident of demography that will rapidly straighten itself out. But as a symptom, the alienation of the young needs to be taken seriously. Underlying it is the realization that the society of organizations poses problems to

the individual that social and political theory does not yet see, let alone answer. The "student activists" are certainly not going to answer the question of the fate and role of the individual in this pluralist society of organizations. Indeed they do not even address themselves to it. Yet their rebellion establishes that the question is central and will have to be tackled. The Burden of Decision Erich Fromm's first book, Escape from Freedom (1940), was written just before World War II to explain the attraction of totalitarianismof the Right or of the Leftfor the young after World War I. A similar book today, trying to explain the alienation of the young, might well be entitled Escape from Decision. It is, above all, the burden of decision imposed by the society of organizations which the young find frightening and against which they rebel. Suddenly there are career choices; the great majority only yesterday had their careers determined from birth on. Suddenly there are decisions on the direction and purpose of knowledge. Suddenly we have to have new economic policies; we can no longer trust either the automatic operation of Adam Smith's "complementary trade," or the "inevitability of history" of the Marxian schema. Suddenly we have acquired enough knowledge in medicine to have to make decisionson heart transplants or artificial kidneys, for instanceabout whom to keep alive and whom to let die. The rhetoric of the young complains bitterly about being "manipulated." But their actions make it clear that it is the burden of decision that frightens them. They want to "drop out" so that there are no decisions, no choices, no responsibility. To sidestep decision is also a decisionand as the young will find out, the one least likely to be right. The students, for instance, who stay on in graduate school (or who join the Peace Corps) to avoid having to decide, are likely to find, a few years later, that they have indeed made the wrong decision. They are lucky if all they have lost is time. But the reaction of the young, while futile, again reflects true insight. The society of organizations demands of the individual deci-

sions regarding himself. At first sight, the decision may appear only to concern career and livelihood. "What shall I do?" is the form in which the question is usually asked. But actually it reflects a demand that the individual take responsibility for society and its institutions. "What cause do I want to serve?" is implied. And underlying this question is the demand that the individual take responsibility for himself. "What shall I do with myself?" rather than "What shall I do?" is really being asked of the young by the multitude of choices around them. The society of organizations forces the individual to ask of himself: "Who am I?'' "What do I want to be?" "What do I want to put into life and what do I want to get out of it?" These are existential questions for all that they are couched in secular form and appear as choices between a job in government, in business, or in college teaching. They have not been askedat least not by Western manfor several centuries. The Protestant Reformation four hundred years ago last posed them as general questions to be answered by everyone. Where medieval Catholicism had given an "automatic" answer of salvation through observance, the Reformation demanded of the individual that he ask himself: "Who do I want to be in order to be saved?" Ever since Descartes in the mid-seventeenth century brushed aside man's spiritual existence as irrelevant, the West has concerned itself with what goes on outside of mannature and society. Of all the major thinkers of the nineteenth century, only Kierkegaard even asked, "How is human existence possible?" To all the others this was a meaningless and unfashionable question. They all asked: "How is society possible?" Rousseau asked it, Hegel asked it, the classical economists asked it. Marx answered it in one way, liberal Protestantism in another. The concern all through the last two centuries of Western history was the society, its rights, its functions, its performance. * Now for the first time, we are again face to face with the age-old question of individual meaning, individual purpose, and individual freedom. Narcotic drugs and avoidance of soap are not particularly * This paragraph is from my essay, "The Unfashionable Kierkegaard," which first appeared in the Autumn, 1949, issue of the Sewanee Review.

relevant answers. But at least the alienation of the young throughout the world today ensures that the questions will have to be considered. For the society of organizations offers choices, and therefore imposes on the individual the burden of decisions. It demands of him the price of freedom: responsibility. The Spheres of Freedom Totalitarianism differs from all tyrannies of the past in that it aims at total control of society rather than at control of government alone. Therein lies its danger; in a society where every social task is discharged in and through a large organization, total control seems both attractive and possible. But at the same time, in such a society the danger of traditional, purely political tyranny is remote. As long as no one organization is permitted to become the organizationas a Communist or a Nazi party strives to bea pluralist society guarantees freedom from domination by any single group. Pluralist society is an organization of "countervailing powers," as J. Kenneth Galbraith pointed out almost twenty years ago. * In fact, the danger in pluralism, as history teaches, is not domination by this or that interest group; it is collapse into indecision and into a stalemate of competing "countervailing powers." But the individual may still be oppressed, even though the powerful institutions fight each other to a stalemate. Galbraith held out the promise of freedom in the interstices between powers. But this is precarious living. Little Black Sambo did indeed survive because "the tigers ate each other up." But I doubt that Little Black Sambo greatly enjoyed the experience or that he would wish to go through it again, let alone to spend his life between those snapping and snarling jaws. The sociologist of the New Left, the late C. Wright Mills, was on shaky ground in his talk of a new "power-elite" based on a conspiracy of the managersof business, of the military, of the labor union, of the big universities, and so on. Conspiracies are rare, and successful conspiracies are exceedingly rare. And this particular conspiracy was a figment of Mills' imagination. Yet the fact that the New Left believes in it should give us pause. Even though these "elites" see themselves in sharp and * In his book American Capitalism (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1952).

bitter competition with each other, they may well appear to the individual as the tigers appeared to Little Black Sambo. There is no guarantee that they will not, at any one moment, make common cause against the individual. And that, ten minutes later, they will fight each other again is scant comfort to the individual whom they have devoured in the meantime. There is only one dependable safeguard of freedom in such a pluralist society: to confine each institution to its task and mission. The demand that each institution concentrate on its task is a political demand in addition to being a managerial and a social demand. The slightest attempt on the part of any one institution to claim "responsibility" beyond its narrow sphere should be considered usurpation. It may be meant well. It may, in the short run, appear to be in the social interest. It may indeed be the only way to get an urgent job done and done well. But it is incompatible with a free society. It is a threat to freedom. This needs to be stressed for the government agency. The government agency is not part of the sovereign. It is not a necessary part of the decision making, the governing, the directing intelligence of society. It is an organ of society for the discharge of a specific, a particular, a partial task. That its ownership is public and its management appointed by the political authority is irrelevant. To make the agency a part of the "sovereign" is, in effect, to usurp power. The public knows this. It feels the need for a line between "government agency" and "government." When judges go on strike, the public is upset, if not outraged. But when subway workers go out, the citizen treats it as just another fight between labor and management, even though it inconveniences and indeed endangers him more than a strike by the judges. To dispense justice is a function of the sovereign. Transportation is an "industry," albeit a vital one. To inject economic warfare into a sovereign function is inappropriate, is indeed outrage. To use it in an industry, while a nuisance, is appropriate. The first to strike and the last to go back in the French general strike in May 1968 were the men in the government-owned French industries, especially in the automotive and aircraft plants. We are, in other words, approaching the point where the distinc-

tion we make between various kinds of strikes is not a formal and legal one, but one of substance. Whether a government agency is involved or not is no longer relevant. We have come to look upon a number of areas as essential to the functioning and survival of modern society. Disruptions of such services are threats to the public. Whether they should be allowed and under what conditions is a hotly disputed and a difficult question. The solution will be the same, however, whether the service is performed by government or not. And "nationalizing" a service is no substitute for a solution. This distinction is, however, quite incompatible with the positions still maintained by political theory and public law. Both still follow John Austin's nineteenth-century doctrine of "formal sovereignty." Both still hold that anything is an act or a sphere of the "sovereign" that can be traced back through formal, logical analysis to a legally valid "sovereign" act, a law, an ordinance, or a verdict. The most extreme Austinians in their legal doctrine (if not in their political theory) are the orthodox Communists, to whom every institution, including the chess club, is an organ of the government, and every organ of the government an embodiment of the ultimate sovereign, "the working class," and as such, infallible and absolute. In the pluralist society of organizations, the rule will have to be the opposite: every organization, no matter what its legal position or ownership, is a special-purpose tool. Only insofar as its actions are necessary for the discharge of its special purpose are they legitimate. Otherwise they are null and void. Function rather than form determines what is lawful for an organization. This also means, however, that regardless of legal form, institutions doing different tasks must be autonomous. The freedom of the individual in a pluralist society demands autonomy of institutions. Practice may have moved further in this direction than our theory or our rhetoric might indicate. To convert the Post Office into a "public corporation" may not bring about the great increases in efficiency promised by advocates of this step. But that we can even discuss such a move seriouslywhen postal communications have been considered an "attribute of sovereignty" since Roman timesindicates clearly that we are already considering function rather than form. Indeed no one (except the

postal workers' union) would be terribly shocked any more by the idea that the postal service might eventually be "reprivatized." Few would even be terribly surprised at the suggestion that, twenty years hence, we might abandon postal service altogether as no longer capable of competing with new and different forms of telecommunications, no matter how deeply entrenched as an "attribute of sovereignty" it might once have been. Similar developments are going on in Communist countries; in large measure, they explain the institutional crisis in the developed Communist countries, i.e., Russia and her European satellites. Traditionally European jurisprudence, since the days of Justinian, divided law into "public" and "private." We may have to add a third category: "organizational law." It would be "private" law, even if the organization were government owned and government run. But it would be ''public" law even if the organization were totally owned by private investors and run by their representatives. Every institution would be considered as limited to the specific service to the members of society which it is intended to perform, and as such, "private." Yet, since every institution has power within its sphere, it would be, as such (in the elegant phrase of the American lawyer), "affected with the public interest." Such a new view of all organizations as being autonomous and limited is needed both to make organization perform and to safeguard the individual's freedom. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; A similar approach might have to be thought through with respect to the internal powers of organization, the power over what have been called its "members." The very term "member" is impermissible. There are only "employees," as regards the rights and powers of organizations over people. "Member" implies that the institution controls, indeed that the bond is indissoluble. To cut off a member is to destroy it (or him). An arm is not capable of sustained existence without being a "member" of the body. Employment, however, is a specific and limited contract in which both parties retain their identity and their freedom. And the employment contract can always be terminated. This may seem like semantic quibbling. But the ultimate

safeguard of freedom for the individual, Rousseau taught two hundred years ago, is the right to emigrate. We need safeguards against arbitrary cancellation of the employment contract by the employer. The law has a duty to protect the weaker in a contractual relationship and to constrain the more powerful from abuse of his advantage. Limitations on the right to terminate employment arbitrarily are therefore legitimate (though not without dangers to the capacity of a society to adapt to change). But restrictions on the mobility of the employee are quite illegitimate and must not be allowed if the pluralist society of organizations is to have a meaningful sphere of individual freedom. This is going to be particularly important for the central employees of the society: the knowledge workers. Where this freedom does not exist today, we already see them demanding it. The young educated Japanese, for instance, would be most unhappy were Japanese employers to abandon the tradition of "lifetime employment." They strongly resist all attempts to give the employer power to discharge any but top management people. But they increasingly demand for themselves the right to leave and go elsewhere, even though it is contrary to tradition. One Japanese company, Sony, the electronics manufacturer, has been highly successful in attracting unusually able people to its employ. This success is largely traced by Sony managers to their practice of offering senior jobs to able people who work for other companies and of helping employees who want to leave to find better jobs elsewhereboth in violation of Japanese custom. At the same time, every Sony employee has all the "rights" of "lifetime employment." Once he has joined he can stay on the payroll until he retires if he so desires. The other Japanese employers are still afraid of such mobility. They fear that knowledge workersengineers, accountants, or computer expertswill become migratory. But, of course, there are never many who "emigrate" in any society. * What matters is that the escape route remain open. This requires both that employees can quit * The Japanese, as well as the Europeans, grotesquely exaggerate the extent of actual "job-hopping" in American industry. After the first five years, the great majority of knowledge workers in America become as settled as the Europeans and almost as immobile as the Japanese.

and that they can go to work elsewhere. Both must be possible without paying an exorbitant legal or economic price. The fear of losing people is the best incentive to respecting them. The most dangerous restrictions on mobility are not police stockades. They are restrictions that present themselves as benefits. The greatest obstacles to organizational mobility today are the "golden fetters," such as pension plans, stock option plans, delayed compensation schemes, and so on, with which we tie managers, professionals, and skilled people to a particular employer. These benefits are to be looked at with grave suspicion. They are eagerly sought by the employees themselves. They offer a means to escape the crushing burden of taxation. They are, in turn, favored, if not subsidized, by government and by the tax authorities. But they are antisocial. It is, of course, the government rather than the employerwhether a business or a universitythat is antisocial by offering tax inducements that make these benefits all but irresistible, thus indicating that they are what public policy desires. The serfdom of medieval Europe was originally an "employee benefit" which was sought eagerly by the peasants. It guaranteed to a weak man the protection of a powerful lord, and especially of the holy men of a monastery. It guaranteed a poor man the enjoyment of his meager holding of land. It shielded against greedy gatherers of tax and tribute. Yet within one generation it turned into loss of freedom and subjection. The worst fetters are those that make our self-interest enslave us. They are the ones against which we have to be especially on guard. In addition to legal safeguard against oppressive power, we need administrative safeguard against oppressive rule. In organization small men have a good deal of power. The postal clerk behind the counter of a substation is a nobody in the post office and probably in his home as well. But he can, and will unless sharply restrained, "throw his weight around" and act the fonctionnaire, abusing the public, keeping it waiting, and so on. If he could be reformed by reminding him that he is being paid to serve the public, the French or Austrian postal clerk would be the most considerate and friendliest servant of the public instead of being the surliest of petty tyrants.

That postal clerks in the United States are, by contrast, normally considerate and helpful is the result of a system of "postal inspectors" who secretly monitor the clerk's behavior and take disciplinary action against fonctionnaire -like arrogance. With organization the pervasive reality of society, defense of the individual against administrative sloth, arrogance, and petty tyranny becomes an essential safeguard of the individual. This is the idea behind the Swedish invention of the ombudsman, whose job it is to protect the citizen against bureaucracy. What the ombudsman (or the postal inspector) does is not nearly so important as his existence. The knowledge that such a person exists, that he is independent, and that to be found remiss by him is likely to be painful, is a powerful deterrent. He cannot prevent the subversion of freedom by dictatorship. But he can curb the erosion of liberty through thoughtlessness, laziness, carelessness, and arrogance. He forces officialdom to think before it callously treats the individual as a "case." He will not make rude men polite. But he may make thoughtless men a little considerate. One of the rights of the individual the ombudsman needs to guard the most jealouslyand against all organizationsis the right to privacy. To be sure, no such right ever existed. In the communities of yesterday, the tribe, the village, the small town, privacy was unknown. A hermit in his cave was the only man who ever enjoyed privacy. Everybody else was public in all his actions and in all his circumstanceshis thoughts, at best, were private. Even the greatest men of earlier times had no privacy. Indeed nothing less private could possibly be imagined than the life of the king of yesterday. Compared to the total lack of privacy Louis XIV had to put up with, even the glare of television cameras in which the modern ruler lives seems private. Privacy is a boon of the Industrial Revolution and of a middle-class society. The number of people who really want privacy is probably small. Yet in a world of powerful organizations, it is a necessary safeguard of freedom. Protection of the citizens' privacy is one of the important political innovations we need. The question should always be asked: "Is the knowledge about the individual necessary?" If the

answer is "no," it should be deniedeven if the individual is perfectly willing to grant it. Privacy is not an individual privilege but a social need. There should therefore be a way to stop the gathering of information about individuals unless the social need can be shown to be paramount. That we can put all the informationand misinformationabout people on computer memories is not the reason for our concern with privacy. The computer memory is only the mechanical expression of the organizational fact. Organizations operate on information, and therefore always try to gather as much as they can. The line between the information the organization truly needs, which therefore is justly "affected with the public interest," and the citizen's privacy, which is essential to his freedom, needs to be established, and reaffirmed again and again. In a pluralist society there are neither "good guys" nor "bad guys" among organizations. All are needed, yet all are capable of degeneration. All are threatened by the bureaucratic disease that subordinates the true rationale of the institutionthe satisfaction of an individual need or wantto the procedure, inertia, and convenience of its bureaucracy. The ombudsman is therefore needed in and against all organizations. He is needed to champion the individual against management in the business corporation, but also against the labor union, whatever the latter's claim to "represent the workers." He is needed in and against the government agency, but also in and against the university. The ombudsman is, so to speak, the hygiene of organizationsor at least their toothbrush. All this is really implied in the general proposition that each organization, the government agency included, must be held to its own specific task and must be forced to keep its authority, as well as its responsibility, within the narrow and strictly interpreted limits of the task. For a pluralist society, strict adherence to specific purpose and narrow boundaries is the first law of liberty. Businesses, no matter who owns them, should stick to providing economic goods and services in the expectation of economic returns. Universities should stick to advancing and teaching knowledge and to making it effective. The military should stick to the defense of the nation. No doubt it is tempting to have business take on "social

responsibilities"and gratifying to the businessmen to be invited to do so. It is tempting for the Department of Defense to apply its fantastic purchasing power to the reform of education (as Mr. McNamara proposed while Secretary of Defense), and especially tempting for the university to play universal aunt to every community need. But no matter how well meant, it is irresponsibility. It is usurpation. It goes beyond the authority for which the institution exists. It goes beyond the task whose fulfillment is the sole reason for its authority. Pluralist societies do not degenerate into tyranny because of the power lust of the barons. This is easily curbed by other barons. The Europe of Charlemagne degenerated because abbots and bishops, i.e., the good, saintly men in a violent and wicked society, took upon themselves "social responsibilities" that were none of their business, to wit, the administration of justice. This only meant that the mighty and wicked, the great barons, had no opposition when they took the prerogative of justice by force from the abbots. The rise of England to greatness, historians have long agreed, rested in large degree on the control of justice by the Crown. Governing England by right of conquest, the Plantagenet kingsotherwise no models of virtue or effectivenessnever allowed anyone else to take over the administration of justice. The difference between England and the European continent did not lie in the assertion of judicial autonomy by archbishops. The difference was that Thomas à Becket's claim to "social responsibility" for justice was put downbrutally, cravenly, by assassination, but effectively. What the kings of England knew was that one cannot grant authority to one power within pluralist society without granting it to others. One cannot grant it to archbishops in respect to their flock without having barons grab it without any pretense to "social responsibility." We will have to learn again that power we grant to one pluralist body, e.g., the government agency, will in the end be demanded by all the others as well. If we do not want this to happen, we had better deny the power to any of them, including the government agency, the university, or any other "good guy" of political folklore. We will have to learn that all organizations are tools of society, each "good" for a specific purpose, each a menace beyond it.

Organization As Individual Opportunity So far, we have been talking about what the Germans used to call the Rechtsstaat: a political society in which the individual is protected against abuse of power on the part of authority. We have been talking of providing for the individual a preserve on which he will not be hunted down by organization, a "national park" outside of organization, so to speak, in which he will be undisturbed in his "natural habitat." But this freedom from the abuse of power is not enough for a free society. A free society rests on the freedom to make responsible decisions. Modern organization frees the individual to move out of the narrow and tightly restricted environment of tribe, village, and small town. It is the modern organization that is creating the opportunities for educated people to put knowledge to work and to get paid for itand paid very well. But these benefits impose on the individual the burden of decision. They impose on him responsibility for what he wants to be and what he wants to become. They also impose on him responsibility for what the organization should be and should become. What then should the individual demand of organization? And what must he do himself to make organization serve his ends? We will have to learn to demand of organization that it provide status and function to the individual. * But of ourselves we will have to demand that we learn how to use organization as opportunity for our own accomplishments and achievements. The young are right when they protest against the tendency of organization to look upon an individual as a tool. But they are wrong when they blame organization for this. They have never asked themselves: "How can I make this or that organization serve my end and my needs?" "How can I make it enable me to perform, to achieve, to contribute?" * On this see my book The New Society (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1950).

That the young rebel against being "inputs" to the computer is understandable. But the clever demonstrations in which they dress up as punch cards and parade with the slogan, "Don't fold, don't mutilate, don't spindle" miss the point. That's what cards are for. The question is: "How can we use the computer and its cards as tools for individual ends?" For to do this one has to understand a little bit about the computerthough not much more than that one can always pull out the plug and stop it (something the fanciful myths about computers taking over the world tend to overlook). Then one sees right away that the computer, for those who understand anything about it, is emancipation for the individual. The purpose of the computer is to enable us not to spend time on "controls," but to use the time for tasks that require perception, imagination, human relations, and creativitythe tasks in which the young rebels profess to believe. This is only one illustration. Modern organization makes demands on the individual to learn something he has never been able to do before: to use organization intelligently, purposefully, deliberately, responsibly. If he runs away from this task and its decisions, organization will indeed become the master. If the individual accepts this responsibility, he will be free and in control. Organizations themselves see this only dimly. Yet we talk today increasingly about the "free-form" organization as alone appropriate to knowledge workin business, as well as in the military, the university, and government service. This is an organization in which discipline shifts to the individual. What controls is not rank but the task. For people who believe that true love consists of being promiscuous (as the very young have always tended to believe), this is, of course, still "restraint." What it really is, however, is responsibility. To make the society of organizations a free society requires acceptance of responsibility by the individual, above all, acceptance of responsibility for contributionhis own, as well as those of organization. This is frightening, and not only to the young. But it is not particularly new. We have known all along that freedom is responsibility, and not license. Young people in the society of organizations need systematic information how to make organization serve their own purposes,

values, and aspirations. They will have to learn organization as their forefathers learned farming. It is the mark of a mature person to ask: "What do I want to get out of life?"and to know that one gets out only as much as one puts in. Tomorrow it will be the mark of a free person to ask: "What do I get out of organizations?"and to know that he gets out only as much as he puts in. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; To make our society function requires that we know how to manage, i.e., how to obtain organizational performance through the work of the individual. To make our society free will also require that the individual learn how to manage organizationhow to make organization and his job in it serve his ends, his values, his desire to achieve. A society needs to be able to allow the individual to opt out and lead a "private life." But this is not freedom. This is indifference. In a free society, the citizen takes responsibility, above all, for his society and its institutions. In the society of organizations, the pluralist society of our time, this is a different task from that of the eighteenth century. Indeed the political tradition of the eighteenth century, the tradition of Locke, is clearly at its end. But the society of organizations may offer greater opportunities for meaningful, effective, responsible freedom than earlier society. Whether they will be realized depends on what we do rather than on what "they," the institutions do. We face a period of hard new thinking on the political structure of society and on the position and role of the individual in it. What we have so far is a new pluralism, a new society of organizations. What we need is a new individualism, a new responsibility.

PART FOUR THE KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY

12 The Knowledge Economy The ''knowledge industries," * which produce and distribute ideas and information rather than goods and services, accounted in 1955 for one-quarter of the U.S. gross national product. This was already three times the proportion of the national product that the country had spent on the "knowledge sector" in 1900. Yet by 1965, ten years later, the knowledge sector was taking one-third of a much bigger national product. In the late 1970's it will account for one-half of the total national product. Every other dollar earned and spent in the American economy will be earned by producing and distributing ideas and information, and will be spent on procuring ideas and information. From an economy of goods, which America was as recently as World War II, we have changed into a knowledge economy. The figures are impressive enough. Ninety per cent of all scientists and technologists who ever lived are alive and at work today. In the first five hundred years since Gutenberg, from 1450 to 1950, some thirty million printed books were published in the world. In the last twenty-five years alone an equal number has appeared. Thirty years ago, on the eve of * The term was coined by the Princeton economist Fritz Machlup in his book Production and Distribution of Knowledge in the United States (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1962).

World War II, semiskilled machine operators, the men on the assembly line, were the center of the American work force. Today the center is the knowledge worker, the man or woman who applies to productive work ideas, concepts, and information rather than manual skill or brawn. Our largest single occupation is teaching, that is, the systematic supply of knowledge and systematic training in applying it. In 1900 the largest single group, indeed still the majority, of the American people, were rural and made a living on the farm. By 1940, the largest single group, by far, were industrial workers, especially semiskilled (in fact, essentially unskilled) machine operators. By 1960, the largest single group were what the census called "professional, managerial, and technical people," that is, knowledge workers. By 1975, or, at the latest by 1980, this group will embrace the majority of Americans at work in the civilian labor force Because the knowledge worker tends to be a good deal better paid than the manual worker, and also to have much greater job security, knowledge has already become the central cost of the American economy. The productivity of knowledge has already become the key to productivity, competitive strength, and economic achievement. But the statistics, impressive though they are, do not reveal the important thing. What matters is that knowledge has become the central "factor of production" in an advanced, developed economy. Economists still tend to classify the "knowledge industries" as "services." As such, they contrast them with the "primary'' industriesagriculture, mining, forestry, and fishing, which make available to man the products of natureand with the "secondary" industriesthat is, manufacturing. But knowledge has actually become the "primary" industry, the industry that supplies to the economy the essential and central resource of production. The economic history of the last hundred years in the advanced and developed countries could be called "from agriculture to knowledge." Where the farmer was the backbone of any economy a century or two agonot only in numbers of people employed, but in importance and value of what he producedknowledge is now the main cost, the main investment, and the main product of the advanced economy and the livelihood of the largest group in the population. Increasingly knowledge is the key factor in a country's interna-

tional economic strength. Increasingly we hear discussions of the "brain drain," which pulls educated people from countries of relative knowledge backwardness toward countries of advanced knowledge status. The best-known example is the brain drain from Britain to the United States, which is certainly closely connected with the fact that, of the major industrial countries, Britain today has the lowest educational level for the great bulk of the population, with 80 per cent of her people leaving school at age fifteen. It is also the country in which access to productive livelihoods is still gained primarily through apprenticeship, that is, through experience rather than through knowledge. But the brain drain may be an even more serious problem for the underdeveloped countries whose educated people tend to go to work in the advanced industrial nations, especially in Britain and the United States (and to a lesser extent in France) rather than stay at home. Similarly during the last few years there has been more and more talk of the "technology gap" that is supposed to open up between the United States and Western Europe. There has been a good deal of fear, even by European friends of the United States, lest Europe become technologically subservienta fear, for instance, expressed in the best-selling book by the writer and journalist, Jeans-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, Le Défi Américain (The American Challenge), mentioned earlier in the discussion of multinational corporations. In 1910, steel was the economic measurementand the steel industry was based squarely on skill rather than on knowledge. If all the men of knowledge at work in a nation in 1900 had suddenly been taken away, the economy would hardly have noticed the difference. Knowledge was then ornamental, economically speaking, rather than functional. Today it is the foundation and measurement of economic potential and economic power. "Knowledge" rather than "science" has become the foundation of the modern economy. This has already been mentioned in Part One, but it needs to be said again. To be sure, science and scientists have suddenly moved into the center of the political, military, and economic stage. But so have practically all the other knowledge people. It is not just the chemists, the physicists, and the engineers who get

fat on consulting assignmentsto the point where they may have a larger income from consulting outside the university than from teaching and research inside. Geographers, geologists, and mathematicians, economists and linguists, psychologists, anthropologists, and marketing men are all busy consulting with governments, with industry, with the foreign aid program, and so on. Few areas of learning are not in demand by the organizations of our pluralist society. There is, I admit, little call for the consulting services of the classics faculty. * But there is more demand for the theologians than most people realize. Altogether it is the exceptional area of knowledge which is not today being brought into play in business and industry, in government and the military, in the hospital and in international relations. This demand, in turn, reflects the basic fact that knowledge has become productive. The systematic and purposeful acquisition of information and its systematic application, rather than "science" or "technology," are emerging as the new foundation for work, productivity, and effort throughout the world. This development has gone furthest in the United States. But in this area, as in so many others, the United States only started moving a few years earlier than the others. The trend runs the same way in every one of the advanced industrial countries. There is a close correlation between the ability of an economy to grow and compete in the world today and the rate of increase of its population in school beyond the age of fifteenwith the United States, Japan, Israel, and the Soviet Union at the top and Great Britain at the bottom among the developed industrial nations. When the Europeans complain about the brain drain and the technology gap, they are only asserting that their economies are not sufficiently "knowledge based" to perform, to grow, and to compete. The demand ahead for knowledge workers seems insatiable. In addition to a million computer programmers, the information industry in the United States will need in the next fifteen years another half-million systems engineers, systems designers, and information * Though Bible scholars are highly prized by both Israeli and Arab armies as consultants on topography, hidden water resources, and so forth.

specialists. We will need, perhaps, two million health care professionalsnurses, dietitians, medical and X-ray technologists, social and psychiatric case workers, physical therapists, and so on. These people are both highly trained, well beyond secondary school, and highly skilled. They are fully the equivalent of the skilled machinist or the skilled carpenter with his years of apprenticeship. But their skill is founded on knowledge. Maintenance of the air fleets of tomorrowthe jumbo jets and jet freighters which, between now and 1980, are likely to become the main carriers of people and freightwill require more workers than now keep all the railroads running. These men, while highly skilled, will greatly differ from the traditional railroad craftsman. First, they will be able to do the entire maintenance operation. They will not, like their predecessors, have been trained in a specific craft, whether sheet metal work or electronics, but in a specific function: keeping an airplane operating safely. Second, their skill will rest on theoretical knowledge and formal schooling rather than on apprenticeship in a craft. Although they will work with their hands, they will apply knowledge rather than skill. Manuals, charts, and texts will be at least as important to them as the traditional hand tools are to the artisan. These examples bring out some fundamentals of the knowledge economy. 1. Knowledge work does not lead to a "disappearance of work." Eminent doctors tell us today that work is on its deathbed in the rich, industrially advanced countries, such as the United States, Western Europe, or Japan. The trends are actually running in the opposite direction. The typical "worker" of the advanced economy, the knowledge worker, is working more and more, and there is demand for more and more knowledge workers. The manual worker, the typical worker of yesterday, may have more leisure. He may go home at five in the evening, but the knowledge worker everywhere works increasingly longer hours. The young engineer, the accountant, the medical technologist, and the teacher take work home with them when they leave the office. Knowledge work, like all productive work, creates its own demand. And the demand is apparently unlimited. 2. Knowledge does not eliminate skill. On the contrary, knowledge

is fast becoming the foundation for skill. We are using knowledge more and more to enable people to acquire skills of a very advanced kind fast and successfully. Knowledge without skill is unproductive. Only when knowledge is used as a foundation for skill does it become productive. Then it enables us to acquire in less time and with less effort what it took years of apprenticeship to learn. It enables us to acquire new skills, i.e., computer programming, which could never be acquired through apprenticeship alone. Knowledge, that is, the systematic organization of information and concepts, is therefore making apprenticeship obsolete. Knowledge substitutes systematic learning for exposure to experience. We learned in World War II, with respect to the manual crafts, that we could compress years of apprenticeship into weeks, or at most months, of organized and systematic learning. Once we converted the experience of a craft to a systematic "program," people without great native talent or intelligence, that is, average people, became highly skilled craftsmen in little time, and enjoyed the learning experience. Britain after Dunkirk demonstrated this first, followed on a larger scale by the United States in 194244. We demonstrated this in metal work such as welding or riveting, in shipbuilding, in engineering work of all kinds, and in construction. The armed forces used systems and programs as the foundation for a great variety of skillsclerical, supervisory, and medical. With this experience the shift to knowledge work and knowledge industry actually began. The man or woman who has once acquired skill on a knowledge foundation has learned to learn. He can acquire rapidly new and different skills. Unlike apprenticeship, which prepares for one specific craft and teaches the use of one specific set of tools for one specific purpose, a knowledge foundation enables people to un-learn and to relearn. It enables them, in other words, to become "technologists" who can put knowledge, skills, and tools to work, rather than "craftsmen" who know how to do one specific task one specific way. Applying knowledge to work has a long history. The priests who thousands of years ago organized Egypt's agricultureand indeed her entire political and social lifearound the knowledge of the flood tides of the Nile, were "knowledge workers" and applied knowledge to work.

But these were exceptions. Knowledge and work, until very recent times, were separate and rarely touched each other. Knowledge was prized for its intrinsic beauty, and praised as conducive to wisdom (though the evidence for this old belief is not overwhelming). Work was based on experienceand this was true, until a century or two ago, even of the work of the physician. As regards the lawyer, Mr. Justice Holmes' dictum, "The life of the law has not been logic, it has been experience," is as valid today as it was a century ago. "Knowledge" as normally considered by the "intellectual" is something very different from "knowledge" in the context of "knowledge economy" or ''knowledge work." For the intellectual, knowledge is what is in a book. But as long as it is in the book, it is only "information" if not mere "data." Only when a man applies the information to doing something does it become knowledge. Knowledge, like electricity or money, is a form of energy that exists only when doing work. The emergence of the knowledge economy is not, in other words, part of "intellectual history" as it is normally conceived. It is part of the "history of technology," which recounts how man puts tools to work. When the intellectual says "knowledge" he usually thinks of something new. But what matters in the "knowledge economy" is whether knowledge, old or new, is applicable, e.g., Newtonian physics to the space program. What is relevant is the imagination and skill of whoever applies it, rather than the sophistication or newness of the information. The idea that knowledge, systematically acquired, could be applied systematically to work is no more than 200 to 250 years old. It first occurred to the long line of English toolmakers and tool designers of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, which culminated in the towering figure of Joseph Whitworth (180387). These men were not only great inventors without whose work modern industry and modern technology would never have come into being. * They also * Unfortunately, the historian of ideas treats them with contempt because they were not "scientists"; and the historian of technology is prone to be dazzled by the prime movers, such as the steam engine, and to overlook the toolmakers who made possible the new engines and processes. Watt's steam engine would never have worked but for John Wilkinson's new boring mill, which supplied cylinders and pistons that fitted tightly and thus cured the leakage of steam which had been the fatal defect of earlier steam engines such as Newcomen's.

set out to systematize what they knew about mechanical work and to build this knowledge into the tool. This not only led directly to "engineering," that is, to the codification of the right way to do any particular task. It also changed work and work forcethe true beginning of the Industrial Revolution. The deliberate design of tools enabled the merely competent workman to turn outpredictably and effectively, time after timework of pre-established precision and uniformity. The famous "go no-go gauges," * which Whitworth designed almost at the beginning of his career, enabled every journeyman to know in a single operation what the work was like, what it should be like, and what was needed to bring it up to standardand then to measure the results against the standards. They were the first "programs" ever designed, and to this day they are the most successful ones. They foreshadowed the ''knowledge economy" in that knowledge, in the work of the English tool designers, became the foundation for skill and the means to acquire easily and fast what had, over the ages, been accessible only to near-genius. What formerly required a "master" now required the "skilled worker." The next step, and a completely different one, was taken in the United States with the Morrill Act of 1862, which established a land-grant college in every state of the Union. What was new was not the idea of research in agriculture and of developing new methods, new seeds, new breeds, and so on. What was new was the idea of converting farming altogether from a practice into a discipline, and of making every farmer an agronomist and systematic technologist. This was a pure act of faith at the time. There was no precedent. Indeed, there was little in human experience to make the idea sound plausible. For fifty years there were few results; but around World War I the land-grant college and the extension service ** began to have the hoped-for impact on farm work, farm output, and farm productivity. Since then the productivity of agriculture has been multiplied, and agriculture has changed character. It used to be the way of life of the * Which standardized the inner, as well as the outer, dimensions of a piece of metal so that it failed the gauge if either too big or too small. ** This was not provided for in the original act, but was established in the early 1900's, largely through the vision and efforts of a nonfarmer, the builder of the Sears Roebuck Company, Julius Rosenwald.

great majority of mankind, and a subsistence living. Now it has become a capital-intensive, mechanized, and "scientific" industry. A small number of highly trained men, equipped with both expensive mechanical and managerial tools, produce something totally new in the world, farm surpluses. This is a greater change in culture, society, and economy than most of the technological innovations we marvel at. The most important step toward the "knowledge economy" was, however, scientific managementthat is, the systematic application of analysis and study to manual work, first pioneered by Frederick W. Taylor (18561915) in the last decades of the nineteenth century. Taylor, for the first time in history, looked at work itself as deserving the attention of an educated man. Before, work had always been taken for granted, especially by the educated. If they ever thought of it, they knew that work had been ordainedby God or by natureand that the only way to produce more was to work more and work harder. Taylor saw that this was false. The key to producing more was to "work smarter." The key to productivity was knowledge, not sweat. Taylor did not start out (as most people believe who have never read him) with ideas of efficiency or economy, let alone with the purpose of making a profit for the employer. He started out with a burning social concern, deeply troubled by what he saw as a suicidal conflict between "labor" and "capital." And his greatest impact has also been social. For scientific management (we today would probably call it "systematic work study,'' and eliminate thereby a good many misunderstandings the term has caused) has proved to be the most effective idea of this century. It is the only basic American idea that has had worldwide acceptance and impact. Wherever it has been applied, it has raised the productivity and with it the earnings of the manual worker, and especially of the laborer, while greatly reducing his physical efforts and his hours of work. It has probably multiplied the laborer's productivity by a factor of one hundred. But above all, Taylor's scientific management provided the way out of the impasse of the nineteenth century; it opened a "third way" between nineteenth-century capitalism and nineteenth-century socialism. It proved them both false. For both assumed as a law of nature

that the economic pie was given and could not be increased, except by putting in more capital or working more and harder. Taylor showed that the economic pie could be enlarged rapidly by applying knowledge to work. This did not create the harmony Taylor had naïvely hoped for. But it replaced an irreconcilable conflict of principles that could only end by subjugating one to the othereither by a dictatorship of the "capitalist" or by one of the "proletariat"with conflict over the division of the fruits of higher productivity. Fighting for "more" can be bitter and protracted; but it can always be compromised. It is not true that Taylor took the skill out of manual work, though it has often been asserted. For he applied scientific management only to work that had never been skilled, i.e., to the work of the laborer. His most famous study, made in 1899, dealt with shoveling sand. And Schmidt, his shoveling laborer, was not skilled, had no pride in his nonexistent craft, no control over his work, no fun doing it, and a bare subsistence to show for his ten hours of back-breaking, but largely unproductive, daily toil. Taylor's study thus enabled the unskilled man to be paid handsomely, almost at the level of the skilled man, and to be in high demand. The laborer suddenly became productive. Taylor, in other words, repealed the "iron law of wages" under which the unskilled manual laborer had always lived. He did this by creating a skill that had never existed before, the skill of the "industrial engineer." It was the first skill to be firmly based on knowledge rather than on experience. The industrial engineer of scientific management is the prototype of all modern "knowledge workers" and, to this day, one of the most productive ones. 3. But while knowledge eliminates neither work nor skill, its introduction does constitute a real revolution both in the productivity of work and in the life of the worker. Perhaps its greatest impact lies in changing society from one of predetermined occupations into one of choices for the individual. It is now possible to make one's living, and a good living at that, doing almost anything one wants to do and plying almost any knowledge. This is something new under the sun. Most of mankind through the ages has had no choice at all. Son followed father. The Indian caste system only gave religious sanction

to what was the norm for most people. Of course, there was always some mobility, upward and downward; even the caste system in India could not entirely prevent this. But these were the exceptions, the few lucky ones, the occasional highly gifted one, the victim of war and catastrophes, or the totally improvident who gambled or gave away whatever he inherited. And in a world in which most people eked out a bare subsistence on the land, being a peasant was for most of mankind the one and only occupation. A century ago even the educated man could only make a living through knowledge in a few narrowly circumscribed "professions": clergyman, physician, lawyer, and teacher, plusthe one newcomercivil servant. Engineers came in at the end of the last century. In 1930, one of the ablest young men ever graduated from a great Oxford college was offered a junior fellowship in mathematics at All Souls', the most prestigious academic institution in Great Britain. Thereupon his intelligent and well-to-do, middle-class family descended upon him in a body and pursuaded him to turn down the offer and to go into banking in the City instead. They pointed out that the young man would have to earn his living and that there were only half a dozen jobs in England that paid a mathematician a living wage, primarily the few senior professorships at Oxford, Cambridge, and London. Obtaining one of these was as much a matter of being at the right place at the right time, when one of the incumbents died, as it was a matter of mathematical genius and merit. The man who failed to obtain one of these plums could at best hope to be a wretched schoolmaster drilling Euclid into numbskulls for a pittance. The point is not that the young man's family was timid. The point is that they were more nearly right than wrong. Opportunities for mathematicians were almost nonexistent in England thirty-five or forty years ago, as they were in most countries in the world. Today, needless to say, opportunities for a mathematician are unlimited. He need not be a Newton or a Gauss to make a very good living doing what he enjoys doing. And the same holds true for almost every other branch of knowledge. In each there are more opportunities for productive, rewarding, and well-paid work than there are men and women available to fill them.

At the same time, access to education is becoming the birthright of people in advanced societiesand its absence the badge of "class domination." It is the absence of access to education which is now meant when people in the developing countries speak of "colonial oppression" or "neocolonialism." Education a hundred years ago was still a privilege. Around 1850, it first became an opportunity which the educational systems in the developed countries increasingly made available to the gifted and ambitious among the poor and ''underprivileged." Within the last twenty or thirty years, access to education has become a right. Nowhere is it yet guaranteed in the Constitution. But it is clearly as important today as any of the rights written into the Bill of Rights. Indeed, when the U.S. Supreme Court outlawed "separate but equal" education for the American Negro and ordered the integration of our schools in 1954 it clearly assumed that the right of access to education was as solemnly embedded in the American Constitution as any of the rights actually guaranteed therein. Of course, there are still limitsand not only of ability, but of wealth, of the accident of location, and certainly of race, even in the richer countries. But, on the whole, we are rapidly moving from a society in which careers and occupations were determined largely by the accident of birth, into one in which we take freedom of choice for granted. The problem today is not the lack of choice, but the abundance thereof. There are so many choices, so many opportunities, so many directions that they bewilder and distract the young people. No sooner have they shown a passing interest in this or that area than they are encouraged to make it their life's career. There is simply not enough of anythingwhether metallurgists or specialists in Oriental languages, whether statisticians or psychologists, whether systems engineers or botanists; all are chronically in short supply. The educated man or woman is overwhelmed. Sometimes I feel that my mathematician friend in Oxford in 1930 had it easier than his children today. But even though a surfeit of choice can become burdensome, the human horizon has still been widened immeasurably. 4. Knowledge opportunities exist primarily in large organizations.

Although the shift to knowledge work has made possible large modern organizations, it is the emergence of these organizationsbusiness enterprise, government agency, large university, research laboratory, hospitalthat in turn has created the job opportunities for the knowledge worker. The knowledge opportunities of yesterday were largely for independent professionals working on their own. Today's knowledge opportunities are largely for people working within an organization as members of a team, or by themselves. This is true even where the organization itself antedates the knowledge society, as do military and government service, university and hospital. There is still the "Herr Professor" who looks upon the university as existing for him, and who works and teaches by himself as he pleases and at most with assistants. But this is not how most of the work in the university is done any more. It is done by teams, by "interdisciplinary groups," and in organized research centers. There is a charming picture of the British Home Office in Victorian times in Anthony Trollope's novel John Caldigate. The novel came out in 187in a period of massive reforms in English local government which the Home Office had pioneered. Yet the Home Office which Trollopehimself a civil servant and thoroughly familiar with the British government of his timeportrays is essentially one man, totally anonymous but very powerful, serving directly under the minister and assisted by a few clerks. In the bureaucratic Russia of the Czars, things were apparently not very different, judging by what Tolstoy tells us about the official life of that powerful bureaucrat, Anna Karenina's hapless husband. And even later, before World War I, the government agency was still essentially one or a few trained men, each working by himself. No one has ever accused the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of understaffing its government offices. Yet when my father entered Austrian government service in 1897, he joined a total of ten other "gentlemen," each with a separate assignment, each reporting directly to an old and powerful chief of the bureau who, in turn, reported directly to the Cabinet. There were simply not enough educated people available to provide a larger staff. Today's Austria, though only one-tenth of the Austria of

1900, employs about five hundred university-trained men in the same department, most of them working in large teams rather than on individual assignments. The knowledge worker of today, in other words, is not the successor to the "free professional" of 1750 or 1900. He is the successor to the employee of yesterday, the manual worker, skilled or unskilled. This is very substantial upgrading. But it also creates an unresolved conflict between the tradition of the knowledge worker and his position as an employee. Though the knowledge worker is not a "laborer," and certainly not a "proletarian," he is still an "employee." He is not a "subordinate" in the sense that he can be told what to do; he is paid, on the contrary, for applying his knowledge, exercising his judgment, and taking responsible leadership. Yet he has a ''boss"in fact, he needs to have a boss to be productive. And the boss is usually not a member of the same discipline but a "manager" whose special competence is to plan, organize, integrate, and measure the work of knowledge people regardless of their discipline or area of specialization. The knowledge worker is both the true "capitalist" in the knowledge society and dependent on his job. Collectively the knowledge workers, the employed educated middle class of today's society, own the means of production through pension funds, investment trusts, and so on. These funds are the true "capitalists" of modern society with which no private individual, were he richer than Croesus, Rothschild, and Morgan combined, could compete. But individually the knowledge worker is dependent on his salary, on the pension benefits and health insurance that go with it, and altogether on having a job and getting paid. Individually he is an "employee," even though there is no other "employer" in our society. But the knowledge worker sees himself as just another "professional," no different from the lawyer, the teacher, the preacher, the doctor, the government servant of yesterday. He has the same education. He has more income. He has probably greater opportunities as well. He may realize that he depends on the organization for access to income and opportunity, and that without the investment the organization has madeand a high investment at thatthere would be

no job for him. But he also realizes, and rightly so, that the organization equally depends on him. This hidden conflict between the knowledge worker's view of himself as a "professional" and the social reality in which he is the upgraded and well-paid successor to the skilled worker of yesterday, underlies the disenchantment of so many highly educated young people with the jobs available to them. It explains why they protest so loudly against the "stupidity" of business, of government, of the armed services, and of the universities. They expect to be "intellectuals." And they find that they are just "staff." Because this holds true for organizations altogether and not just for this or that organization, there is no place to flee. If they turn their backs on business and go to the university, they soon find out that this, too, is a "machine.'' If they turn from the university to government service, they find the same situation there. What most of them fail to realize is that the choice is not between these irksome jobswhich are irksome precisely because they are "jobs"and an illusory freedom. The choice is between jobs that have opportunity and are paid well, and working in the potato or cotton patch, hoeing or weeding, sixteen hours a day for a bare subsistence. But it may be too much to expect young people to understand this. Certainly every single one of them would argue that this may be true for all the others, but he is the exception, the one who is qualified to be a true "professional." This clash between the expectations in respect to knowledge jobs and their reality will become sharper and clearer with every passing year. It will make the management of knowledge workers increasingly crucial to the performance and achievement of the knowledge society. We will have to learn to manage the knowledge worker both for productivity and for satisfaction, both for achievement and for status. We will have to learn to give the knowledge worker a job big enough to challenge him, and to permit performance as a "professional." But no matter how good a job we do in the management of the knowledge workerand so far, we have barely begun to work in this areahis status, function, and position in modern society are certain to be a central problem, politically as well as socially. It is likely to be

the social question of the developed countries for the twentieth and probably for the twenty-first century. The Emergence of Knowledge Work How did this shift to knowledge society and knowledge economy come about? The popular answer is: "Because jobs have been getting more complex and more demanding." But the right answer is: "Because the working lifespan of man has increased so greatly." It is not the demand for labor but the supply that underlies this great transformation of society and economy. And this, in turn, also explains the social and economic problems posed by the emergence of knowledge. The arrival of the knowledge worker changed the nature of jobs. Because modern society has to employ people who expect and demand knowledge work, knowledge jobs have to be created. As a result, the character of work is being transformed. The demands of most jobs have changed but little, at least until recent years. There is nothing, for instance, in the work of a salesgirl that explains why, thirty years ago, junior high school was considered adequate preparation for the work while today the applicant is expected to have finished high school and preferably a few years of college as well. Nor does today's salesgirl at eighteen or twenty produce any more sales than the fifteen-year-old salesgirl of 1935, or the twelve-year-old salesgirl of 1910. The typical foreman in a mass-production plant in the United States in 1929 had gone to work at age fifteen, with six years of schooling. Ten years later, before the outbreak of World War II, the typical assembly-plant foreman already had a high school education. Today it is increasingly taken for granted that he is a college graduate. Yet the job is exactly what it was forty years ago. If anything, it has become less demanding as more and more of it has either been reduced to formula or been taken out of the foreman's hands and shifted to such specialists as personnel people, quality controllers, and production planners. That the much-vaunted "complexity of today's jobs" is a myth is also shown by comparing American practice with that of other advanced industrial countries. For, while moving in the same direction,

Europe and Japan are still well behind in the educational upgrading of the entire population. Jobs which call for a year or two of college education in the United States are being staffed in Germany, for instance, with men and women who have finished what corresponds roughly to the American junior high school (the German Ober-Sekunda-Reife ). Yet there is no discernible difference in the demands made on the employee, or in his or her productivity. The best example is found in Canada, where there are two educational standards side by side. Toronto and industrial Ontario are on the same educational standard as the American Midwest on which they border. A few hundred miles to the east, Montreal and industrial Quebec are only now starting the "educational explosion." The jobs that, in Ontario, are being filled by high school graduates, preferably with one or two years of college, are staffed by the same employerssupermarket chains, for instance, or commercial banks, or manufacturerswith junior high school graduates in Quebec. They are paid quite differently; yet there is not much difference in the jobs they do or in their productivity. The direct cause of the upgrading of the jobs is, in other words, the upgrading of the educational level of the entrant into the labor force. The longer he or she stays in school, the more education will be required for entrance into a given job or occupation. But the extension of the years in school is itself only an effect rather than a cause. It is the result of a long development which drastically changed working-life expectancy in the industrially advanced countries. That life expectancy has gone up sharply in the advanced countries is common knowledge. But few people seem to have noticed that the years of working life have gone up even faster. Around the turn of the century, that is, in the lifetime of people still alive and working today, few members of the labor force could expect to work to full capacity past age forty-five or fifty. They were at least likely to be impaired physically by then. Fifty years ago European middle-class mothers used to tell their children: "A government job does not pay much. But you won't starve if you become an invalid before your time. And it does provide for your

widow and the children you leave behind." The earlier retirement programs, e.g., those of the military and civil services of Europe, expected the few survivors to retire after twenty-five to thirty years of working life, that is, before the age of fifty. One of the oldest general retirement systems, that of the Japanese, still makes retirement at fifty-five compulsory for all but the people at the very top, with a lump-sum retirement payment equal to two years of salary. This was adequate as late as 1940. Few Japanese lived that longand those that reached fifty-five were unlikely to live a great many more years beyond retirement. Today, when Japanese life expectancies and working lifespans are equal to those of the most advanced countries of the West, these retirement provisions have become absurd. Working lifespan a half-century ago was already higher than it had been throughout history. Prior to 1850, there was no country where average life expectancy greatly exceeded thirty-three or thirty-five years, which limited average working life to twenty years. By 1914 these figures had risen, in the most advanced countries, to around thirty years of working-life expectancy, from starting work at age fifteen to disablement or death at age forty-five or so. Today working life extends to age sixty-five for the great majority. If we still expected people to start work around age fourteen, as we did everywhere up to World War I, we would have a working life of fifty years for the great majoritytwo and a half times that of a century ago, and two-thirds larger than it was only a generation ago. Even with our later age of entrance into the work forceeighteen or twentythe working lifespan in the advanced countries today is twice that of a century ago and fifty per cent larger than it was around the time of World War I. This means that we have more than doubled the human capital of the economy in the last century. We have also more than doubled the earnings potential of the individual; for a lifetime income of an individual is, of course, his annual income multiplied by the number of years he is capable of earning it. This is the biggest increase in what the economists call the "stock of capital" ever recorded in economic history. It is also the greatest advance ever recorded in economic wealth and well-beinginfinitely greater than anything shown in the economist's statistics of the supply of goods, which is

what the economist usually means when he talks of the "standard of living." Extending the working lifespan has altered the ratio between the productive and the dependent members of the population. This may have been an even greater boost to productivity than the increase in the stock of capital. How much there is in a society does not depend solely on how much the individual produces; it depends also on how many people have to be supported by the productivity of one producer. In fact, productivity of an economy might perhaps best be expressed as productivity of the individual divided by the number of dependent people he has to support. * The extension of working lifespan in today's developed countries has, during the last hundred years, altered drastically the traditional balance between producers and dependents. Not only do people who survive remain self-supporting until a much later age; more important, they stay producers so much longer that even with a somewhat larger family, the number of dependents per producer has gone down sharply. The farmer or artisan of 1800 or 1850 who had a thirty-year working life had to support four or five dependents all through this period. On average, only two or three of his children reached manhood and became producers themselves. But in order to have two or three grown children, his wife (or wives) had to give birth to seven or eightso that there were always young ones in the home who had to be supported. In addition, his own parents, if they survived, were likely to become dependent in their mid-forties, when he himself still carried a heavy burden of dependent children. Today, with a working life of forty years or more, and with child mortality reduced so sharply that babies can be expected to survive to manhood, the producer in the developed countries only has to support two or three dependents at any time, and only, as a rule, for the first half of his own productive life. In other words, extending working lifespan * This is the reason why the "population explosion" is such a threat to the social and economic welfare of the developing nations. It increases the number of dependents, particularly small children below the productive age, so rapidly that even great increases in per capita production on the part of the producing population do not result in larger per capita income and higher standards of living.

amounts to quadrupling the economic potential of the same resource, the individual productive human being. This tremendous enrichment made possible the general adoption of what had always been the rarest privilege of the exceedingly rich: the wife-and-mother was able to leave the labor force and stay home. As a result, not having one's wife work became the badge of respectability and affluence in the developed countries during the nineteenth century. The English worker still considers it an insult to be asked whether his wife worksa self-respecting working man keeps his woman at home. Meanwhile, of course, the wife of the truly affluent is again going back into the labor force. The steady rise of married women at work in the developed countries is one of the most significant and most universal economic phenomena of the last two decades. It is the result of the productivity that creates "affluence" and thus makes it possible for even the working-class woman to have "mechanical servants" which take physical labor and time out of housework. It is the result also of advances in fertility control and infant and child health care which make it possible for the family in the developed countries to "plan" both the number and the spacing of their children. The mother is no longer tied to the home beyond the early years of marriage, and can go back to work when the children start going to school. This, a complete reversal of the earlier trend, again greatly alters the ratio between producers and dependents and, with it, the "stock of capital'' of the advanced economies. Contrary to popular belief, the advances in medicine had little to do with the lengthening of working lifespan. One main cause was undoubtedly the shift from farming as the occupation of the majority to where it now is the occupation of a very small minorityfewer than 6 per cent of the United States population for instance. For farm work ages fast, especially the farm work of sixty years ago, before electricity and modern machinery. Also in traditional agriculture disabling accidents occur far more frequently than even in the most dangerous industrial pursuits. The farmer, and especially his wife, tended to be old and disabled by the time their children reached their teens.

But the shift from laborer to machine operator was hardly less important. Whether Irish or Chinese, the "navvies" who built the American railroads with pick and shovel rarely lasted more than five years or so before they were disabled by accident, liquor, syphilis, or plain back-breaking toil. As late as 1900, seamstresses in the garment lofts of New York, London's East End, Paris, or Vienna did not last much longer. Within ten years most of them had fallen victim to blindness or to TB, the twin scourges of their trade. Scientific agriculture and scientific management are, therefore, the true heroes. They are the two main factors in the extension of working lifespan. The drop in infant mortality and the advances in public health might well have lengthened total lifespan. But working lifespan would not have moved upward much. For this, it was necessary first to make possible the feeding of large populations by a small number of truly productive farmers and, second, to eliminate the physically destructive tasks from industrial work. The rise in working lifespan, in turn, has led almost everywhere to a substantial extension of years spent in school. It can be argued that this extension reflects a common faith in education as one of the highest human values. People are eager to spend a substantial part of new wealth, such as a longer working lifespan represents, on education rather than get immediate money income. It can also be argued that extending the years in school is economic rationality in which people can indulge once they no longer have to worry where the next meal is coming from. By postponing earnings for a few years, they acquire higher earning power for the rest of their lives. There is no doubt that lifetime earnings rise disproportionately with education. If, in addition, working lifespan also rises, the return on the investment in education, made by postponing the start of income by a few years, rises exponentially. In other words, extending the years of schooling is rational economic behavior. It "maximizes profits" far more effectively than anything the shrewdest businessman could ever have worked out. There is one more explanation of this sharp increase in years of schooling. People cannot stand a working life of fifty years. It is simply too long for them. A part of the gain in working lifespan is

therefore offset by postponing entrance into the labor force to a later age. School is not seen primarily as desirable in itself nor as a means to a better livelihood. It is seen very largely as a way of keeping the kids off the street while still keeping them out of the labor force for a few years. There is plenty of evidence for this rather cynical view. Indeed, there is evidence that even a working life of forty-five yearsthat is, a working life that begins at age twentymay be too long, especially for knowledge workers. Whichever of these three explanations is preferredand there are elements of all three in the situationthe results are the same. In the advanced countries, man has chosen to take a substantial part of the increased wealth made possible by scientific agriculture and scientific management in the form of longer years of schooling. Extending the years of schooling forces us to create jobs that apply knowledge to work. The person who has sat on a school bench until he is eighteen or twenty may not have learned anything. But he has acquired different expectations. He (or she) expects in the first place a different kind of job, a job that is "proper" for a high school or college graduate. This is first a job with higher pay. But also a job with greater opportunity. A job that gives a "living" is no longer enough. It must offer a "career." But the job for the highly schooled is also a job in which one no longer works with one's hands but by applying one's mind. It is a knowledge job. Long years of schooling make a person unfit for anything but knowledge work. If he has learned anything at all, it is concept, system, idea; it is not experience. Finally, he is no longer available for apprenticeship; he is simply too old to start acquiring skill the traditional way, which takes five to eight years. The young man or woman who has sat in school until eighteen or twenty cannot become a ''skilled worker," old style. Whatever he needs to learn must start from a foundation in knowledge. The "education explosion" after World War II radically altered the supply of laborfirst in the United States and increasingly in all advanced industrial countries, including the Soviet Union. It made it impossible to continue the traditional job structure. In the United States in particular we were faced with the need to shift rapidly from

manual jobs, skilled or unskilled, to knowledge jobs, skilled or unskilled, as the center of employment. At the very least we had to upgrade the pay of a good many traditional jobs even though the jobs themselves did not change at all; the salesgirl is an example. Indeed the basic problem in the American economy in the twenty years since World War II has never been the supply of manual jobs. This has been a concern only because of the special situation of the American Negro. For the white 90 per cent of the population, the problem has been an adequate supply of knowledge jobs, or of jobs that paid on the knowledge scale. If we had not been able to justify the expectations of educated people for knowledge jobs, we would have today an unemployed and unemployable intellectual proletariat the like of which the world has never seen. It would present an infinitely more dangerous and more explosive problem than our racial ghettos. It is amazing that the American economy could satisfy the expectations of all these people with long years of schooling. Even more amazing is that American business, by and large, could raise productivity enough to maintain the competitive position of American industry in the world and the ability of the American economy to grow. For we did not haveand still do not havemuch knowledge about managing the knowledge worker and making him productive. In addition, in many cases, we had to pay much higher wages for people whose expectations were based on their long years of schooling, even though they did the same work with the same productivity as people with much less schooling, and with many fewer expectations, had done before. As a result of the change in supply, we now have to create genuine knowledge jobs, whether the work itself demands it or not. For a true knowledge job is the only way to make highly schooled people productive. By a circuitous and quite unplanned route, we are therefore arriving at the point at which Taylor aimed seventy-five years ago: we are beginning to apply knowledge to work itself. That the knowledge worker came first and knowledge work secondthat indeed knowledge work is still largely to comeis a historical accident. From now on, we can expect increasing emphasis on work based on knowledge,

and especially on skills based on knowledge. The new jobs that open up in the economy will start out with theoretical and conceptual knowledge acquired systematically and in a "course." Old jobs will either be changed to knowledge jobs or will be replaced by knowledge jobs. We can expect, in other words, that we will develop a true knowledge economy, as we have already developed a knowledge work force. A good deal of this knowledge work, like computer programming, will be semiskilled rather than highly skilled. But even then it will require a knowledge foundation acquired in school. The social, political, and economic challenges in and from the work force in industrially advanced countries increasingly arise out of the dynamics of knowledge work and out of the needs of the knowledge worker.

13 Work and Worker in the Knowledge Society In the last twenty years the base of our economy shifted from manual to knowledge work, and the center of gravity of our social expenditure from goods to knowledge. Yet neither productivity nor profitability of the American economy so far show the impact. Clearly we do not as yet know how to obtain economic performance from knowledge. We also do not know how to satisfy the knowledge worker and to enable him to gain the achievement he needs. Nor do we as yet fully understand the social and psychological needs of the knowledge worker. That we do not yet know how to manage knowledge workers for performance is hardly surprising considering how recent the shift to knowledge work has been. After all, it is less than a hundred years since we first began to concern ourselves with managing the manual worker. Robert Owen, to be sure, managed manual workers in his textile mills in Lanarkshire in Scotland as early as 1820. But while his model factories were a tourist attraction of the first magnitude, nobody paid much attention to his management concepts and methods. Not until after the American Civil Warand really not until Taylor another twenty years laterdid we start to look at manual work and manual workers. Prior to 1860 or so, no one even knew how to measure output. The term "productivity" as applied to workers is fairly recent usage.

We could, therefore, hardly expect to know how to define, let alone to measure the output of knowledge work. For this task we need definitionsnot to speak of measurementsthat are quite different from those that we have learned to apply to manual work. The most useless and wasteful effort is that of an engineering team that with great speed, precision, and elegance turns out drawings for the wrong product. Knowledge work is not easily defined in quantitative terms, and may indeed be incapable of quantification altogether. The computer, it is reasonably certain, cannot measure the work of the programmer who runs the computer. We also do not know how to manage the knowledge worker so that he wants to contribute and perform. But we do know that he must be managed quite differently from the way we manage the manual worker. Motivation for knowledge work must come from within the worker himself. The traditional "motivators," that is, external rewardspay, for instancedo not motivate him. Dissatisfaction with external rewards such as pay destroys motivation, but satisfaction with them is taken for granted. Their absence, in other words, prevents performance, but their presence is neutral. Frederick Herzberg * of Case-Western Reserve University in Cleveland, who has done pioneering work in this area, calls the external rewards "hygiene factors." What the knowledge worker needs to be positively motivated is achievement. He needs a challenge. He needs to know that he contributes. This is in complete contradiction to what we have come to consider "good management" of the manual worker. The essence of our experience here is summed up in the popular phrase, "A fair day's work for a fair day's pay." Knowledge workers, however, should be expected to do "an exceptional day's work"and, they should then also have a chance to earn "exceptional pay." The knowledge worker's demands are much greater than those of the manual worker; indeed, they are quite different. For the manual worker a job was, above all, a "livelihood." That jobs ought also to * See his The Motivation to Work (New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1959), and Work and the Nature of Man (Cleveland: World Publishing, 1966). See also my book, The Effective Executive (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1967), especially Chapter One.

satisfy people is a brand-new idea. The belief of so many critics of the industrial system (including a good many "human relations" people) that pre-industrial work was satisfying is naive nostalgia. This idea simply did not enter the heads of the masses of people in the past. What would have been the point anyhow, when one's occupation was determined, more or less, by what one's father did, or by whatever work one could find? The traditional view of work was that of the Old Testament, which presents it as a curse laid on man, rather than as a blessing or an opportunity. Only recently, when industrial crisis created enforced idleness while industrial productivity enabled us to maintain unemployed men above the subsistence level, have we come to realize that work is a psychological and social necessity for man and not only the way to earn our daily bread. Knowledge workers cannot be satisfied with work that is only a livelihood. Their aspirations and their view of themselves are those of the "professional" or the "intellectual." If they respect knowledge at all, they demand that it become the base for accomplishment. For this reason, it is crucial that knowledge workers be challenged to achieve. For this reason, in other words, managing knowledge workers for performance is as essential to the knowledge worker himself as it is to society and economy. Knowledge workers also require that the demands be made on them by knowledge rather than by bosses, that is, by objectives rather than by people. They require a performance-oriented organization rather than an authority-oriented organization. Knowledge workers still need a superior. The organization structure must clearly identify where final decisions and ultimate responsibility rest. Organization needs constitutional law, that is, a definition of authority and responsibility within hierarchical structure. But knowledge work itself knows no hierarchy, for there are no "higher" and "lower" knowledges. Knowledge is either relevant to a given task or irrelevant to it. The task decides, not the name, the age, or the budget of the discipline, or the rank of the individual plying it. For a disease of the eye the ophthalmologist is relevant; for removal of a gall bladder it is the abdominal surgeon. Knowledge, therefore, has to be organized as a team in which the task decides who is in charge, when, for what, and for how long.

Organization structures for knowledge work must therefore be both rigid and flexible, both have clear authority and yet be task focused, informed both by the logic of the situation and the necessity of command. Two mediocre knowledge workers do not produce twice as much as one first-rate one. They do not even produce as much as one mediocre knowledge worker. In all probability they produce nothingthey just get in each other's way. The difference between competent work and excellence is great in all fields. It is the difference between journeyman and master. But in knowledge work it is particularly pronounced. This does not mean that every knowledge worker needs to be a great man, but it does mean that he has to strive for excellence to accomplish anything. Knowledge work that "just gets by" is not productive. This has great implication for the life and career of the knowledge worker himself, quite apart from what it means for his management. To make knowledge work productive will be the great management task of this century, just as to make manual work productive was the great management task of the last century. The gap between knowledge work that is managed for productivity and knowledge work that is left unmanaged is probably a great deal wider than was the tremendous difference between manual work before and after the introduction of scientific management. Knowledge Workers and Working Lifespan Yet no matter how satisfying the individual task, a good many knowledge workers tend to tire of their jobs in early middle age. Long before they reach retirement age, let alone long before they become physically and mentally disabled, the sparkle, the challenge, the excitement have gone out of their work. There is ample evidence that despite the extension of schooling, working lifespan is still too long for all but a limited number. For manual workers early retirement seems to offer a solution, as witness the eagerness with which it has been accepted in the American automobile, steel, and rubber industries despite heavy financial penalties. The manual worker does not, it seems, suffer from a "prob-

lem of leisure." Time does not hang heavy on his hands, even though he shows little desire for the "cultural pursuits" that are pressed on him by the educated. He can sit in a cottage or trailer in Florida, apparently happy and busy with a small garden, occupied with fishing, hunting, and gossiping, without much desire to go back to the mill. The knowledge worker, however, cannot easily retire. If he does, he is likely to disintegrate fast. Knowledge work is apparently habit-forming in a way in which manual work is not. People who have been doing knowledge work for twenty-odd years or so cannot stop. But the great majority of them cannot go on either. They do not have the inner resources. This is not true, it seems, of the few who reach the top, either in terms of power and position or in terms of eminence and leadership in their chosen discipline. They preserve their zest and tend to immerse themselves completely in their work. But the great many members of the educated middle class are only too susceptible to a modern version of the affliction known to the Middle Ages as accidie: the emotional malaise and subacute despair that was the typical disease of the clerc who realized, around age thirty or so, that he would be neither saint nor abbot. Similarly, knowledge workers who, while successful, remain within a specific function or specific discipline until around forty-five or so, often become tired, dispirited, and bored with themselves and the job. There is, for example, the director of market research in a business or the head of quality control; the comptroller of a navy yard or a training officer in the army with the rank of lieutenant colonel; the senior economist in a government bureau or the senior social worker in a veterans' hospital; even the good "sound" professor on the university faculty. In business and in government, in the armed services and in the university there is a lot of talk about "retreads," about "recharging a man's batteries," about the need for "sabbaticals," and for "going back to school." But it needs to be recognized that this is not a problem of the individual, but a generic problem grounded in the ambivalence of the knowledge worker's status. It is a resultprobably an inevitable oneof the hidden conflict between the knowledge

worker's view of himself as a "professional" and the fact that he is within organization and a successor to yesterday's craftsman rather than to yesterday's "professional." Yet we cannot expect to shorten the working lifespan of the knowledge worker through extending his years of schooling even further. Indeed we should go the other way and shorten the years the young man spends in school before he starts in knowledge work. The problem cannot be made to go away. But it can, and must, be converted into an opportunity. We must make it possible for the middle-aged knowledge worker to start a second knowledge career. It is difficult to exaggerate the extent of this need. I touched upon this need for second knowledge careers in an interview which appeared in the May 1968 issue of Psychology Today (a magazine which then had only limited circulation). This provoked an outpouring of letters and telephone calls from all over the United StatesI received at least seven hundred personal letters and hundreds of telephone callsfrom ministers of all faiths, university professors, military officers, school principals, accountants, engineers, middle managers, civil servants, and so on. Almost all recited a life story of substantial success. Yet all asked: "Now that I am forty-seven, how can I start doing something new and challenging?" The accomplished knowledge journeyman, at forty-five or fifty is in his physical and mental prime. If he is tired and bored, it is because he has reached the limit of contribution and growth in his first careerand he knows it. He is likely to deteriorate rapidly if left doing what no longer truly challenges him. It is of little use to look to "hobbies" or to "cultural interests" to keep him alive. Being an amateur does not satisfy a man who has learned to be a professional. He may be willing, as he gets older, to spend a little more time on "interests" outside of the job. But he is not willing, nor emotionally able, to make such "interests" the center of his life, even if he has the money to do so. To be a dilettante has to be learned in childhood as all aristocracies have known. One thing this man usually has is a desire to contribute. The children are grown up by this time, and the house is paid for. The man who no longer really cares for the work he has been doing for

twenty-odd years, work he knows so thoroughly that it provides neither challenge nor thrill, now "wants to give," as so many of these men express it. Today there is little organized opportunity to do so. Yet at the same time, we haveand will continue to havea growing shortage of personnel in a good many areas of knowledge work. We are having increasing difficulty, for instance, in recruiting young men for the ministry, for teaching, and for medicine. In the past, young men and women had to go into these areas if they wanted to be knowledge workers at all. Now, however, with all the choices open to young people, these occupations are much less attractive, even if they pay well (as both teaching and medicine do). They demand of the young far too early a commitment, far too irrevocable a choice. Twenty years later, however, these are precisely the occupations sought by the man who "wants to give." Under our present system, the preparation for these careers assumes a youngster who has to learn everything. No allowance is made for the experience and knowledge of a mature man. In fact, at present we do everything to discourage him. I know of a Roman Catholic order of nuns which found, to their surprise, that women they had never considered as possible candidates, such as widows of fifty or so, were greatly interested in entering the order. Many of these women had been schoolteachers in their earlier yearsand the order was a teaching order. Yet of a hundred or so applicants only one actually survived the period of probation and took her vows. When the Mother Superior asked her why the other 99 had withdrawn, she was told, "Do you realize that you tell each applicant that she has to start out taking a course in sewing? Most of us have sewn our own clothes and often those of our children or of nieces and nephews for years. If we wanted to sew, we could have stayed right where we were." Our divinity schools, our schools of social work, of education, of nursing, and of medicine are no different. They also expect the applicant, regardless of his age, to start out "learning to sew." There is no reason, however, why we should not teach experienced, responsible, serious men and women, who have shown their capacity to contrib-

ute, how to be effective teachers, ministers, social workers, nurses, or doctors and train them in a fraction of the time needed to prepare youngsters without experience. Similarly people of this age need organized opportunities to switch from one institution to another while staying in their technical or functional areaagain perhaps with a little training. We have already seen the need for men in all our organizations who know how other organizations work. We need men in government service who know how business works, how the university works, how the armed services work, how the labor union works, and so on. We need people in business who have personal experience of the other organizations. The work itself may not be very different from one organization to another. The accountant in business may well do precisely what an accountant does in the government agency or in a hospital. The government administrator may spend his day much the way the business manager or the hospital administrator does. Yet the environment, the values, the political realities of each of these organizations are sufficiently different to provide a new stimulus to the man who has become tired and bored. I have personally observed in the last decade maybe fifty to a hundred military officers, men who reached the rank of commander in the Navy or of colonel in the Army or Air Force and who were retired, as not promotable any further, around age forty-eight to fifty. When they first left the service they were pitifulscared of life, weighed down by the belief that theirs had been a narrow and circumscribed environment, and aware also of being tired and drained. There was not one ''great man" among themand not many interesting ones either. They were not always easy to place. But the great majority made a successful transition to a different kind of life: as teacher in a small college or as its business manager, as auditor in an accounting firm or in a local government, as personnel manager in a hospital or as traffic manager in a business, and so on. Without exception each of these men became years younger, came to life and started to grow again and to contribute. Almost all institutions today have compulsory retirement at age sixty-five. We do, indeed, have to retire people from organizations. The main reason is not that people get old. The main reason is that

we have to create opportunities for the young, or they will either not come or not stay. And an organization that does not have young knowledge workers is an organization that cannot grow, and can only defend yesterday. * But to deny work to a man at any particular age is also needless cruelty and a waste of human resources. Although we need to retire men, we also need organized rehiring for second careers. We need not do the job as ruthlessly as the military which retires a man who will go no further whether he likes it or not (though this may be more merciful than to let him stay on, vegetate, and destroy himself in frustration and self-pity as businesses and universities are wont to do). But we need to face up to reality the way the military does. People do not age chronologically. Some, at sixty-five, are younger than others ever were at thirty-five. Nor do people age uniformly. A man who is well along in years and no longer capable of working strenuously may be unimpaired in his judgment, and a better decision maker than he was twenty years earlier. And the adviser, especially one who combines knowledge with compassion, usually does his best work when old enough to be detached. Above all, however, sixty-five is simply much too late a retirement age from the first occupation for the great majority of knowledge workers. They "retire on the job" twenty years earlier. And then they simply sit out their pensionand block and frustrate both the leaders on top and the young below them. Ultimately they frustrate themselves. Financial planning for retirement is a good idea. But psychological retirement preparation has not worked well. Otherwise there would not be so many people who have to be pushed out on the day of retirement and who slink away as if condemned to a slow, painful, and lingering deathas indeed they often are. The institution needs relief from people too tired to make their contribution. The individual needs the opportunity to become productive again, without a fixed termination point for his useful life. * This has been shown unambiguously in the work of the British psychiatrist and social researcher Dr. Elliott Jaques. See his book Measurement of Responsibility (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1956).

We therefore need to create wholesale opportunities for second careersand especially for second careers in pursuits where a fixed retirement age is not necessary, that is, where there are no young people bottled up further down the line, e.g., the minister or the physician in private practice. Only with these opportunities will we truly take advantage of that tremendous achievement, the extension of the working lifespan of modern man. This proposal presupposes the most difficult shift of all: a shift in attitude. To develop courses of study is not a major problem. We know how to do this, especially if men will begin fairly early to investigate the opportunities. To provide organized and systematic placement methods is also no great problem. The real problem is old attitudes. Educators are convinced that there is only one curriculum for any area of study. Indeed they see something morally wrong in not insisting on the "required" two years of a course on business economics from the man who, in his working life, has proven himself to be an able economist, and, who may even, on the side, have taught the very course the rules now require him to take. Executives are still convinced that a man who is no longer challenged by his job has "stopped growing." In his old field he has indeed "stopped growing." But if he was a competent man to begin withprovided, of course, that he is not sickhe may now simply be ready to "grow" in some other field. Finally, the knowledge worker himself will have to change his attitude. He will have to learn that there is no disgrace in starting over again at age forty-five. He will have to learn that it is relatively easy to do so. And he will have to learn that a second career at this age is a great deal more satisfyingand funthan the bottle, a torrid affair with a chit of a girl, the psychoanalyst's couch, or any of the other customary attempts to mask one's frustration and boredom with work that, only a few short years ago, had been exciting, challenging, and satisfying. The Problems of the Transition The challenges posed by the knowledge worker will largely decide how productive, effective, and satisfying the knowledge society will

be. But in the next decade our efforts will focus on the transition, the shift away from yesterday's manual work. We face real problems in respect to the unskilled worker, in respect to the craft tradition of skilled work, and, in the United States, in respect to the ghetto Negro. For in these three areas, though differently in each, the shift to knowledge work presents a threat and creates a problem. In these areas also we are likely to make the most dangerous mistakes, especially the mistakes of trying to hold on to, and to defend, yesterday. By now the scare talk about automation has largely died down. Even the labor unions, at least in the United States, have had to admit, albeit grudgingly, that automation does not cause unemployment. Willard Wirtz, Secretary of Labor in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, started out in 1961 with speeches on the "innumerable jobs automation destroys"; but from 1964 on he talked instead about the "jobs created by automation." * There is plenty of evidence that job turnover and pace of technological progress have been lower these last twenty years in the United States than at any earlier period on which we have data. Outside of the United States there is even less evidence of "automation unemployment," even though the rate of technological change and of increasing productivity has been much greater in Western Europe and in Japan. The more sophisticated thesis of a good many economists that there has been "secular stagnation" in manufacturing employment has also not been borne out by the facts. Employment in manufacturing industries did not go up in the fifties. But we now realize that the United States, in the years after the Korean War, went through a sizable recession. When we came out of it in 196061, manufacturing employment at once began to rise again, and to rise in the traditional pattern. Manufacturing industries that increased their share of the total national income, that is, growing industries, increased their employment faster than their output (electronics, pharmaceuticals, and computers are examples). Shrinking industries decreased their * His subordinates, the exceedingly able economists of the Department of Labor, never shared their chief's fears. While Mr. Wirtz talked about "automation unemployment," they kept their mouths shut but published study after study showing that there was no such thing.

employment faster than their share in total outputfor the simple reason that in shrinking industries the least productive units close down first. And in industries that neither grew nor shrank but stagnated, employment decreased by no more than the 2 to 3 per cent a year by which productivity can be expected to be raised in any business or industry through normal, day-to-day management engineering, without new technology and indeed without new machinery. Particularly relevant here is the behavior of employment in the automobile and steel industries. These are old industries where, however, a good deal of new machinery has been coming in. They were therefore expected to show a significant drop in employment even with a considerable expansion of output. This did not occur. These industries increased employment disproportionately fast once output climbed out of the trough in which it had wallowed through the fifties. And yet it is not intelligent to dismiss the worker's fear of automation. He explains his fear the wrong wayautomation is a bogeymanbut he is afraid of something real and menacing. For as a result of the shift to knowledge work, the unskilled worker is speedily reverting to a position of social impotence and unimportance. The unskilled worker was the first beneficiary of the application of knowledge to work. Scientific management gave the laborer (to give him the title by which he had been known throughout history) productivity for the first time. It made him "semiskilled"but whatever skill there was, was in the design of his job; he himself needed none. It thereby made it possible to pay this worker, the machine operator, wages such as no unskilled worker in history could ever be paid before, the wages of an economic producer. The wage differential between the unskilled man who, historically, was more of an economic liability than he was an asset, and the skilled man, the producer, almost disappeared. This differential had been of the order of three to one or more throughout history; during the last thirty years, in all industrial countries it shrank to a point where, in World War II in the United States, it was less than 10 per cent for many industries.

But even more important was the social upsurge of labor. No class in history has ever advanced as fast in social status and power as the unskilled worker did in the first fifty years of the twentieth century. He, or she, became the hero of World War II; "Rosie the Riveter," the assembly-line worker who turned out the ships, tanks, and airplanes (and the heroine of a popular American song in World War II), was the symbol of industrial society, its achievement and its power. And in the mass-production unions, which grew to strength and power after World War I, the unskilled worker acquired political power, social cohesion, pride, and leadership. Paradoxically, the next impact of the application of knowledge to workwhich is already in evidencewill return the unskilled worker to his earlier low social status. Economically he will retain his gains. In fact, the application of knowledge is likely to make him even more productive and, therefore, capable of earning an even higher wage. Job security is likely to be great; for as education becomes more general, the supply of people available for unskilled mass-production jobs will probably shrink faster than the demandthe one exception in the developed countries being the American Negro. Yet the unskilled mass-production worker will be seen as an engineering imperfection. He has a job only because we have not taken the trouble to apply enough knowledge to his work so as to "program" it for the machine. A machine can do any mechanical operation once we really know and understand itthe only question is whether it is economical or not. In a great many cases it is not economical, either because we do not produce enough units or because the job of finding out is exceedingly complex, whereas doing the work is simple and requires little learning or instruction. It is, for instance, quite feasible to "program" the job of putting on one's overcoat and design a machine to do it. It would take months of time-and-motion study to figure out what we do, but it would not be beyond the powers of trained industrial engineers and machine designers. It would, however, be quite absurd. But no matter what his income or job security, the unskilled worker's social position is going rapidly. With it goes the thrust of his

union. The unions can remain powerful for a long time, by sheer numbers and by their concentration of voting power in major industrial centers such as Detroit or Pittsburgh. But the mass-production unions have ceased to be capable of leadership. They can no longer act as agents of social advance, no matter how hard Walter Reuther tries. Any change is a threat to them. They can only become nay-sayers, timid obstacles to any change, reactionaries pining back to a "yesterday" that never was but that once looked as if it could and would be "tomorrow." The pressure on government to preserve the unskilled worker, if not to restore his former position, will, therefore, be great. There is every reason to help himif only because his lack of skill makes him quite unable to help himself. Retraining, for instance, is badly needed and so are placement services. But what we need is not to prevent change, but to organize it. We need to learn from the Swedes and adapt Gösta Rehn's approach to change to our own situations (see page 60). We need to make change possible, easy, and as painless as it can be. There is nothing government can do to cure the deep feeling of insecurity of the unskilled machine operator. Neither government nor management can eliminate the causes of the psychological malaise that haunts him. Participation of worker and union in management, or in profits, whatever else it might do, is irrelevant as a remedy for the real problem. Public policy can make sure, however, that the worker knows that government and management will take action to make him cope with change. If governmentor managementtries to prevent change, it will only make inevitable great suffering a little later on. Government policy should speed the transition. This is the only way to control it. Unskilled work otherwise will become a trap. We must be able to encourage the individual who can make the shiftor his sonto become a knowledge worker himself. And we must be able to assure the individual who is an unskilled worker that, when his present job becomes obsolete, society will help him to find another job, to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for it, and to move to it. This is not a task the individual employer can tackle alone. It

might be done cooperatively by a group of employers in a given neighborhoodas, under union auspices, is being tried in the Toledo, Ohio, area. Or it might, as in Sweden, be handled by government, with the close cooperation of employers and unions. But whatever the community organization for placing the individual, the employer will have to think and plan ahead. In most cases redundancies that outdate the job of substantial numbers of workers can be identified a long time ahead. It is possible to start early enough to find a new job for a man, and to prepare him for it. Such manpower planning has proved highly beneficial to any enterprise that has tried it. One promising approach might be the New Careers Program * developed at New York University. This program starts out by training "unemployables"mainly Negroes from the black ghettosfor the traditional low-skill service occupations in hospitals, schools, social work, or prisons. It capitalizes on the severe manpower shortage in these areas. But while the student is trained for a simple jobe.g., nurses' aide or social-work interviewerhe is encouraged, all along, to aim at becoming eventually a full-fledged professional, that is, to move on from nurses' aide to trained nurse and perhaps, in the end, to becoming a physician. This requires not only new learning methods but also the willingness of professions and of the hiring institutions to remake their career ladders and to reward performance and achievement. The program is still quite new. But its results are encouraging enough to show that once a person has learned, and learned systematically, he can unlearn and relearn with relative ease. Of course, Gösta Rehn's program in Swedenor the World War II experiences in Great Britain and the United Statesshould have taught us that. But the New Careers Program succeeds both in motivating and in teaching people who had been complete failures in earlier, traditional education, and who had been given up as "unteachable" in addition to being "unemployable." All employers, not only business, need to accept that the shift to knowledge work imposes a responsibility on them to think through * See Up from Poverty, by Frank Riessman and Hermine I. Popper (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1968).

the future of today's unskilled jobs. Otherwise government will be forced, by public opinion, to become a defender of yesterday's work structure, a defender of yesterday's goods economy, and thus the major obstacle to the success of tomorrow's knowledge economy. Today's skilled worker presents an infinitely more difficult problem. For skilled work is not becoming obsolete. On the contrary; it is becoming more common and more important, to the point where the great majority will soon be employed in skilled work. Only it will not be the craft-based skilled work of yesterday, but skilled work based in knowledge. The traditional crafts are obsolete. Their basic assumptions no longer apply. Craft assumes that one learns through apprenticeship; but with the years of school expected of anyone today apprenticeship is no longer a tenable proposition. Indeed there are few qualified candidates available for it any more. The complaint that the craft union in the United States keeps out Negro apprentices is well founded; it is probably our most reactionary, most racist organization. But at the same time, the craft unions are dying for want of new young members. The average age of the membership of most American craft unions is well up in the fifties. New recruitsin shipbuilding or in the construction industries, in railroad shop work, or in the printing unionsare hard to come by. The youngsters are expected to stay in school and to become knowledge workersand their own fathers, the prosperous craftsmen, raise the roof if the kids drop out to follow in the fathers' footsteps. Even less tenable are the fundamental assumptions a craft makes about work and workers. A craft assumes that what one has learned by the time one finishes apprenticeship will last for the rest of one's working life. It assumes that certain work "belongs" to it and that it has to be done a certain way. Crafts are inherently conservative. What they do has been proved by long experience and is likely to become hallowed ritual not to be tampered with by "green kids." But knowledge is, by definition, inquisitive, innovative. It probes. It assumes that what we already know is obsolescent and unlikely to be what we should or could know. And it is no respecter of "jurisdictional" lines. Just because a hammer is the tool of the carpenter and the laser the tool of the physicist is no reason for knowledge not to

apply the laser to carpenter's work tomorrow. As a result, most knowledge-based skills change often and without regard to traditional demarcations and jurisdictions. Learning a craft unfits a man for learning anything new or different. He has been trained that this is the one way of doing this job. But nobody has told him that this might also be the right way to do some other job, let alone that there are other ways of doing any job. We have proved that the most complex skill can be acquired by people with little background if taught by "program." The U.S. Air Force trained almost illiterate Negroes to be electricians. The Air Force had no choice. Qualified white men do not stay in military service long enough to go through an apprenticeship. But these barely literate men turned out to be good electricians. A few years later the Air Force had to turn them, however, into missile maintainers. This is different workelectronic rather than electrical, and "systems engineering" rather than craft skill. Moreover, missile maintenance is done far away from any base and by men who work by themselves and yet have to be able to diagnose and to remedy complex malfunctions fast. Once, however, the job had been thoroughly studied and reduced to knowledge and system, even these illiterate men learned with few exceptions to maintain missiles with a high standard of performance and responsibility. This ability to gain advanced skills through programmed acquisition of knowledge makes traditional craft structures untenable. Whether called "guild" or "union" they become a burden to society and a threat to the individual member. Maintenance of craft jurisdiction may, for a few years, preserve the union and the jobs of the union leaders as it is doing in American shipyards or in the newspapers. But it rapidly destroys the job and the job security of the individual member. It deprives him of the ability to relearn, to acquire new skills to do the old job or to apply his old skills to a new job. For this he not only needs knowledge rather than apprenticeship. He also needs an entirely different approach to joband job securitythan that of the traditional craft organization. To enable our society and economy to grow and to protect the individual member of a craft or skill, we will have to liquidate the

craft union and the craft concept. We have to do this not to abolish skill, but to liberate it and make it truly productive. This is primarily a task for the English-speaking countries, especially for the United States and Great Britain. For these are the countries where craft unionism flourishes. We can learn from leading industrial countries of the free world that do not know craft unions, especially from Japan and Germany. Craft skill was the organizing principle of Japanese industry before the opening of the country and its modernization after 1867. All ''old" industries, silk weaving or fan-making or lacquering were strict craft guilds. But the "new" industries that were established on imported Western technology never adopted the craft principle. Workers in these industries are trained to do any job in the plant. All workers in Japanese industry, including men high up in management, are expected to continue training till the day they retire. All keep on learning both new ways of doing their job and new skills. This continuous training has been based, from the beginning, on systematic schooling rather than on craft skill and apprenticeship. This, of course, is possible only because the Japanese worker has a "lifetime" job and will not be dismissed except in a major catastrophe or for gross misbehavior. His pay has been principally tied to his seniority rather than to his skill or the work he does (though this is changing fast). Therefore the new is an opportunity to him, if only because it makes his company more competitive and therefore makes him more secure. That he is unlikely to find another job should his company go out of business is, of course, a powerful incentive as well. The German example is equally instructive. Before Hitler, Germany was organized in strong craft unions, which jealously guarded their respective jurisdictions. After World War II, however, these unions were not restoredlargely because the labor adviser to the American military government, Victor Reuther (a leader of a United States mass-production union, the automobile workers), advised against it. Instead, all German labor is organized in a small number of large industrial unions. The workers of every enterprise belong to one and only one of these unions. The German worker is still being trained in a long apprenticeship. Yet there is little craft rivalry within a given plant; for the workers, regardless of their work, all belong to the same union. Their jobs are not guaranteed by their craft but by their seniority within the over-all enterprise. And

although it is not always easy to transfer a man from craft work of one kind to craft work of another, it is increasingly accepted by management as well as by the union that it is to the man's own interest to acquire skills beyond one craft area and to become available for whatever opportunities his seniority within the plant may offer him. Even highly skilled men in a German automobile plant move from one craft job to another better-paid one without running into the jurisdictional barriers that prevent such moves in an American or British plant. Again there is a high degree of job security, if not "lifetime employment," in Germany, especially for men who have acquired skills. "Lifetime employment" is no longer desirable, even in Japan. For while it protects a man as long as his company or industry is doing at least reasonably well, it makes it virtually impossible for him to move elsewhere should his company or industry fail. But the underlying principle is sound; it is the responsibility of the employer to provide job security. In a knowledge economy where skill is based on knowledge, and where technology and economy are likely to change fast, however, the only meaningful job security is the capacity to learn fast. The only real security in an economy and society at flux is to know enough to be able to move. We need a combination of the Japanese emphasis on continuous training, the German commitment to industry or plant rather than craft, and the Swedish guarantee of job and income through mobility, to make it possible, politically as well as psychologically, to liquidate the self-defeating monopolies of craft unionism. This transition may be the toughest industrial problem facing the United States and Great Britain. But unless these two countries tackle the job, they will not, I fear, be able to retain for long the capacity for economic growth and international competition, and the social flexibility to build and take advantage of the knowledge economy. Both transition problems, that of the unskilled mass-production worker, and that of craft skill and craft organizations, will be most acute in the United States. For it is here that the new knowledge economy is developing the furthest and the fastest. Above all both are inextricably entwined with our most dangerous, most sensitive, and most urgent problem, the race issue.

The American Negro was the most direct beneficiary of the upsurge in the economic and social position of the unskilled mass-production worker earlier in the century. Urban jobs for the Negro in substantial numbers were first created by mass production. These jobs were far better paid than any ever before open to his race. Moreover, they gave him membership and increasing equality in the industrial unions, that is, in a social organization of growing power. The gains began in World War I, and reached their peak in the decade that began with World War II and ended with the Korean War. During these years mass-production jobs were so plentiful that they exceeded the available supply of white workers. The Negro, therefore, found little resistance when he moved in. Indeed the Supreme Court decisions in the 1950's, which knocked down the legal bars to Negro equality in American society, were largely codifications of the tremendous gains the Negro had made in the quarter century before as a full member of the mass-production work force. It is no coincidence that the world capital of mass-production industry, Detroit, is the only major American city in which Negro and white live in the same neighborhoods, the only American city without a clearly delimited Negro ghetto. It is also no coincidence that Detroit had the worst of the recent riots in Americain the summer of 1967despite record employment in Detroit at the time. For the Negro is also the worst sufferer from the reversal in the ascendency of the mass-production worker. As the latest immigrant into the city, he is least equipped for an economy in which knowledge acquired in formal schooling is the foundation of skill and opportunity. Every immigrant generation into the city came from a background of rural illiteracy and had to jump an educational gap. But whereas the unlettered rural Irish who streamed into Manchester and Liverpool in 1780, or into Boston and Philadelphia in 1850, lacked only a few weeks of schooling to be fully equipped for practically all the jobs of their society, the gap is now twelve years or somuch more than can possibly be bridged by one generation. The shift to the knowledge economy, therefore, deprives the Negro masses of whatever gains they see themselves as having made. This is

bad enough economically. But the real damage is to social standing and self-respect, to hope and promise. That the Negro is rebellious because he has advanced so much recently as to become impatient is, I am afraid, a white delusion. The Negro is rebellious because he sees himself deprived of what little gains he has madethey are being knocked out of his hands just at the moment when he first tastes their fruits. And the shift began just at the time when large masses of young Negroes were being lured from the rural South into the northern city with its promises of well-paid and respected jobs, a promise the city suddenly no longer lives up to. It is, therefore, urgent to find immediate mass-production jobs for the unskilled young Negro male. But it is not going to be easy, no matter how hard governments and businesses try. In both areas we must expect growing resistance from the incumbents, white or Negro. (Such resistance from skilled Negro craftsmen played a substantial part in the troubles of Eastman Kodak in Rochester, New York, in 196667 with an organization of unskilled young Negroes from the rural Southwhich also explains why the company did not know how to handle the conflict.) Even though jobs are not shrinking in manual work, the present holders still see themselves as threatened. There is growing reluctance to share what to the incumbents seem like shrinking opportunities, and open resistance by unions and worker alike against any attempt to give the new Negro entrant special treatment, e.g., job security or special training ahead of workers, white or black, with greater seniority. Jobs for the urban Negro in the North may be easier to find in skilled work, despite the racist, lily-white tradition of practically all craft unions. For the young white boy with enough wits and education to qualify for a craft apprenticeship increasingly stays in school and becomes a knowledge worker. Once the original resistance to the black man has been overcome, there should therefore be jobs for him. But the number of young urban Negroes who can qualify for jobs of this kind is not large. They require a good deal more background, both in skill and in education, than young people fresh from a preliterate rural environment are likely to muster. Still, recent attempts have proved that quite a few young Negroes, given intensive train-

ingespecially classroom training in knowledge skills such as mathematics or blueprint readingcan reach the required entrance standards. We need much greater and much more sustained efforts to open craft jobs to Negro apprentices. And yet to find jobs for the Negro in manual work, skilled or unskilled, is not going to be the solution in the long run. It may even do long-term harm. There is a real danger that unskilled mass-production work will box in the Negro in a new ghetto a few years hence. As children of white workers acquire the schooling needed for knowledge jobs, first mass-production and then skilled work might become the new "Negro occupations." This has already happened in the meat-packing industry. It is happening in respect to assembly-line work in the Detroit automotive plants and in the New York garment trade. As the Negro would be making good money in this new ghetto, the conscience of the whites would be assuaged again, with every attempt of the Negro to gain real membership in American society resented as "ingratitude." Even greater is the danger that a policy of emphasizing manual jobs, skilled or unskilled, for the Negro might put the welfare of the Negro in conflict with the best interest of the country as a whole. The best interest of the country demands that the shift from manual to knowledge work be speeded rather than retarded. It demands encouragement of a gradual shrinkage of manual jobs, whether skilled or unskilled, and their replacement by skilled jobs based on a knowledge foundation. For one thing the knowledge jobs are so much more productive. For another they are so much more satisfactory, can be paid so much better, and offer so many more opportunities. For economy and individual alike, they are a major jump ahead, whatever their problems. But if manual jobs become the preserve of the Negro and his livelihood as well as his claim to equality and self-respect, a national policy that is in the interest of the country as a wholeand of its white majoritywill be disastrous for the Negro minority and a direct attack on them. And this is one danger that neither the white majority nor the colored minority can afford. However badly we need immediate mass-production and craft jobs for the Negro, we need even more a massive effort to find, identify, develop, and place the largest possible number of Negro knowledge

workers as early as possible. This means going into elementary school. It means working with boys and girls at a very early age, helping them to plan careers, encouraging them to stay in school and to learn, showing them opportunities, examples, and models. It means going to the Negro family to encourage the support for school and learning which has been so singularly lacking until the last few years (though no more than it was lacking among the Irish in our cities in the 1880's, among the Italians in New York or the Polish in Chicago in the 1920's, or among the Czech immigrants in the industrial Vienna of 1910). It means making learning and teaching relevant and effective. It means also the development of programse.g., the New Careers Program mentioned earlierto give adolescents and even adults a second chance to put to use their native abilities. There is less resistance to the Negro in knowledge jobs than in manual jobs. Knowledge jobs are expanding so much more rapidly that the Negro is less of a competitive threat. Moreover, any hope for acceptance of the Negro by the white community rests on his being accepted by the leading social groups. Social acceptance never comes up from the bottomwhich explains why the membership of the Negro in the mass-production union had so little effect on his acceptance by American society. Social status is determined at the top of the social ladder. And the knowledge worker, needless to say, is the leading group in the knowledge society. The race problem in America will not be solved if the Negro overcomes his handicap as the latest to arrive in urban society at a time of great changes. Social action never solves spiritual problems. And the racial problem is America's historical spiritual agony, and one which only suffering and a contrite heart can, in the end, overcome. But unless we solve the social problem and help the American Negro to become an effective and productive member of knowledge society and knowledge economy, there is no hope for any solution at all. White leadership must finance, encourage, sponsor, spearhead the right social action. But the job of developing displaced rural fieldhands into knowledge workers demands above all commitment by educated Negroes. For though discriminated against, kept out and kept down, they are already inside the knowledge society. And while

jobs and incomes for the Negro in America may be found in manual work, equalitywhether in separation from, or in integration with, the white worldcan only be established today in the dominant knowledge society. The most hopeful development in America today is, therefore, the rapid growth of the Negro knowledge worker in the last decades. Though still a comparatively small segment of the total Negro populationmaybe a fifth or soNegro knowledge workers have been increasing at twice the rate of the white knowledge workers. And for the first time the Negro knowledge worker identifies himself with the Negro community rather than attempting to escape it. The rapid emergence of the Negro knowledge worker, capable of acceptance as a leader by the black community and as a peer by the white leadership groups, has therefore become possiblefor the first time in American history. It would be tragic folly and catastrophe were this hope to be destroyed by well-meant but shortsighted overconcentration on opening to the Negro yesterday's employments in skilled and unskilled manual jobs. The emergence of knowledge as central to our society has converted into dead-end streets the avenues by means of which earlier Negro leaders had hoped to reach the goals of Negro equality, Negro dignity, and Negro fulfillment: ownership of the small farm and access to manual work as an equal. It has instead opened up knowledge jobs as the greatest opportunity the black man has yet had in America. This makes newand very greatdemands on both the white and the black community. Above all, though, it dramatizes the demands that the emergence of knowledge society and knowledge economy makes on the traditional knowledge institution, the school.

14 Has Success Spoiled the Schools? In the late 1960's the United States, despite the Vietnam war, spent quite a bit more on education than on defense. Education took annually about $70 to $75 billion of which $50 billion was spent by the school and university systems (public and private) and perhaps half as much again by industry, governments, and the armed forces for all kinds of schooling and training. This was twice what the United States had spent in a year in the mid-fifties, and four times the amount spent annually in the years after World War II when the "educational explosion" first started. Education has become by far the largest community expenditure in the American economy. We spend more on education than on all other nondefense community services togetherhealth care, welfare, farm subsidies, and so on. Teachers of all kinds, now the largest single occupational group in the American labor force, outnumber by a good margin steelworkers, teamsters, and salespeople, indeed even farmers. These are but the quantitative symptoms of a major change in values by no means confined to the United States. Education has become the key to opportunity and advancement all over the modern world, replacing birth, wealth, and perhaps even talent. Education has become the first value choice of modern man. This is success such as no schoolmaster through the ages would

have dared dream of. But can education live with this success? Or, to paraphrase the title of a popular play of a few years ago, "Has Success Spoiled the Schools?" Signs abound that all is far from well with education. While expenditures have been skyrocketingand will keep on going upthe taxpayers are getting visibly restless. In community after community across the United States they have voted down, in the last few years, proposals for new school taxes or new school bonds or higher teachers' salaries. These may be futile gestures: in the end the school taxes do go up, the money for new buildings is providedif not out of school bonds, then out of federal subsidiesand the teachers' salaries are adjusted by competitive pressure. But the growing resistance to the cost of education indicates that the public is beginning to be concerned with what it gets for its money. The ambivalence between faith in education and resistance to its costs is present everywhere. The British Labour government, committed to rapid expansion of general education accessible to everyone, still resists teachers' demands for higher salaries and tries to postpone the building of badly needed teacher-training colleges. Japanese students, fully aware that education controls what opportunities they will enjoy, still riot against an increase in fees. De Gaulle is willing to spend scarce francs sending teachers to French Canada. But until the students rose up in May 1968 and all but tore down French society, de Gaulle had been resisting all demands to expand the badly eroded and totally inadequate facilities of Paris' famous old university, the Sorbonne. We all love education and want more of it. But we clearly are not at all convinced that we are getting our money's worth for what we spend on itand with good reason. Important, if only as a symptom, is the alienation from the school of today's adolescent rebels, the beats and hippies. Adolescent rebellion, almost without exception, has in the past been organized in and around the school, and especially in and around the university. The left-wing radicals of the thirties in Britain and the United States, for instance, and their imitators, the left-wing students in Latin America today, had the university for their base and considered it their own institution. The beats and hippies, however, rebel today against school even more than against their parents.

To find a parallel, one has to go back a good many centuries to the goliards, the beats and dropouts from the university of the early Renaissance. That the goliards achieved very little, except a few rowdy songs, does not matter. They bespoke the senility and obsolescence of the traditional university as it had come down from the Middle Ages. They heralded its breakup and replacement by the "modern" university, a very different school, with different educational goals, different values, and entirely different content and curriculum. A hundred years hence, today's beats and hippies may well come to be seen as the goliards of the twentieth century who, without achieving much of their own, heralded the breakdown of the traditional "humanist" education, which arose in the seventeenth century as education for the new tiny minority of lay scribes, and which by now has been extended uncritically to education for everyone everywhere. Education has become too important to be left to the educators. In modern society everybody has a right to consider himself an "expert" on schools, for everybody during his formative years spends more waking hours in school than in any one other institution. Moreover, education is far too big a cost to be accepted without questioning. To ask whether it is fruitful investment or simply expense is a legitimate question. Education has also become too powerful to go unchallenged, for schooling increasingly controls access to careers, opportunities, and advancement. For all these reasons education must become a public issue in all advanced countriesand perhaps even more in the developing countries where the costs of education have become a major barrier to economic and social development. The schools, their structure, their role, their objectives, and, above all, what they teach will, therefore, become increasingly a major concern. What do the schools produce in return for what we spend on them? What do we get out of all the years we sit in schools? What Is School For? Skilled craftsmen, everyone had known for centuries, were a great economic asset. But until recently going to school was, economically speaking, a luxury. Literacy had long been preached among Protestants and Orthodox Jews as necessary for effective religious perfor-

mance. From the eighteenth century on, it had become a foundation for citizenship. Elementary education had, by 1850 or so, come to be accepted as necessary to the individual's ability to ''better himself." But only a tiny minority needed more than the bare minimum; only a tiny minority was expected to use knowledge in its work at all. In the early years of this century there was, for instance, no pressure for education in the colonial areas. On the contrary, British attempts to introduce universal primary education in India were steadily resisted by the incipient anticolonial movement of the day, the early Indian Congress party. Schools were a shocking waste of the taxpayer's money, from which the country would not derive any benefit. The felt need in the poorer countries was for irrigation works, roads, and lower taxes. And the number of educated people who could be usefully employed was so small that the need was easily satisfied by the sons of the wealthy who could well afford to pay for school out of their own pockets. Until recently, economists were severely critical of the Japanese drive for universal literacy after 1870 as a wasteful diversion of badly needed economic resources to an unproductive "prestige" project. The greatest sin of "colonialism" today is that it did not introduce universal schooling and therefore did not produce an educated society in the colonial countries. And no achievement of the Japanese reforms of the Meiji Period after 1867 was so universally acclaimed during the Meiji Centennial celebrations in 196768 as the priority given to education as the foundation of a modern productive economy and society. That education was not seen as economically productive but rather as a luxury the rich could afford, explains in large measure the manner in which the years of schooling were extended. Responding primarily to the increase of working lifespan, the schools put more and more youngsters into "advanced education," that is, into what had been designed as vocational training for a small number of scribes. What had been highly specialized training became, by default, everybody's general education. This was not planned; it happened. The last unit of school that was planned and thought through at all was what is known in the United States as "junior high school," that is, school for the pre-

adolescent from age twelve to fifteen. Junior high school, however, was designed in Europe well over a century ago when in some countries it first became economically possible to keep substantial numbers of children in school beyond the elementary grades. * Conceived as terminal school for the great majority, it was designed to a large extent to blend in with the first years of apprenticeship in a craft. Beyond this, however, the new additional students were simply put into existing schools that had been created originally to train clergymen, lawyers, or civil servants, such as the English public school, the German Gymnasium, the American high school, or the French lycée. We repeated this process once more when going to college became common during the last twenty or thirty years. This process shows best perhaps in the way the arguments for teaching Latin in secondary school have changedwhile the teaching of Latin itself has not changed one bit. In 1700 or 1750 no one would have argued that teaching Latin taught anything but Latin. No one spoke of it as "forming the mind," no one praised it as a "discipline," no one asserted that knowing Latin was the key to learning the other European languages more easily. One learned Latin because Latin was the "communications medium" of educated people. Until the mid-eighteenth century when French cultural imperialism tried unsuccessfully to put the language of Louis XIV into the place of the language of Augustus, books for the educated and documents of importance were normally written in Latin. Latin was taught as a tool of high utility without which a scribe could not properly function. When this came to an endin the early nineteenth centuryall the other virtues of Latin were suddenly discovered. Now, for the last fifty or hundred years, Latin is being defended because it has no usefulness whatever; that is, it is an ornament. An "educated man,'' it is argued, should not learn subjects of utility but subjects such as Latin which are "liberal" and "general education" precisely because no one can do anything with them. This is not an argument against Latin; it is an illustration of the fundamental character of our higher education, a character grounded * The first country to develop this school type on a broad basis was Austria (around 1820). The name it then received, Buergerschule, that is, "school for citizens," was meant as a political manifesto by the liberal educators who designed it. Educated people are "citizens" rather than "subjects."

in its history and original purpose. As a vocational school for the professions that require ability to writeand this is what "learned" originally meanthigher education quite properly stressed the verbal skills. The apprenticeship of the carpenter stressed plane and hammer and saw. The apprenticeship of the clergyman, the lawyer, the teacher, the government servantthat is, higher education as it emerged out of Renaissance and Reformationstressed reading, writing, and enough mathematics to be an accountant, a lawyer administering estates, and a surveyor. The school could therefore leave to the other apprenticeships concern with everything that was not verbal skill. Life taught to most people anyhow free of cost the nonverbal: experience and performance. For employments other than as a scribe, formal education was considered a handicap rather than an asset. When I started work as an apprentice clerk in an export firm, only forty years ago, I was considered distinctly "overeducated." I had finished secondary school, and no apprentice before me, including the owners of the firm and their sons, had entered work that late. They had all started at age fourteen, and yet considered themselves fully educated and were considered so by the community. But today the school has become the universal growing-up process for everybody. For this purpose, however, verbal training is not adequate, let alone productive. We can no longer assume that the great majority will have enough nonverbal experiences outside of school; the great majority receives its most important learning exposure during its formative years by sitting in the classroom and receiving there the scribe's education. That is much too one-sided, much too restricted, much too narrowly vocationaland, above all, not "liberal" or "general," and not truly "educational." The greatest weakness of the schools today, and the one youngsters most suffer from, is this verbal straitjacket. Of course, there are also sportsand we need them. But man is more than verbal skills and muscle. Few things are as badly needed in growing up as the sense of achievement, which only performance can give. But the schools do not permit achievement. In the "academic disciplines" a student

cannot perform. He can only show promise. All he can do in schools in the verbal areas is to repeat what somebody has already done or said. Yesterday's educators had no choice but to extend the only school they had, the only school they knew. Their customers would have resented it had they been offered anything but the school they had come to envy as the mark of privilege. But the result is a school that deforms rather than forms. It is a school of boredom, of lack of stimulation, of lack of achievement, and of lack of satisfaction. I am not surprised that the kids riot. I am surprised at their patience, considering how bored most of them are in school most of the time. * The problem of the school is not a matter of "standards" as schoolmasters tend to define them. It is not a matter, in other words, of "working harder" and of "doing more" of what is being done today. What we have learned in respect to all work applies to the work of the school as well. We need to "work smarter." We need to do different things and to do them differently. History shows a frightening parallel to the way our education is going everywhere in the world today. It is the decline of the world's most creative, most advanced, and most exciting civilization, that of China in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. Until then, China had led the world in the arts and in the sciences, in medicine and in mathematics, in technology and in statecraft. The reaction against independent thinking and artistic creativity that followed the invasion of the Mongols in the thirteenth century imposed the Confucian system of purely literary and purely imitative "liberal education" to the exclusion of everything else. Within a century China had become sterile and had lost her capacity to do anything new, to imagine anything new, to perceive anything new. We are, I am afraid, on the same roadand we have traveled very far along it. This is not a plea for what is known today as "vocational education," that is, for teaching traditional craft skills the traditional way, * A frightening picture of the frustrating boredom that school tends to be even for bright children from educated white middle- and upper-class homes is given in the moving book How Children Fail by John Holt (New York: Pitman Publishing, 1965).

only in a classroom instead of in the shop. On the contrary, nothing is deader than traditional "vocational education"assuming (against all evidence) that it ever was alive. The skills that "vocational education" teaches are obsolete. They are the craft skills of yesterday. The one thing that is predictable is that by the time the students graduate into a job, automobile maintenance or woodworkingor even cookingwill no longer be done the way we are teaching these crafts in our vocational schools. This is not the way to teach skill anyhow. The way to teach a skill today is by putting it on a knowledge foundation and teaching it through a systematic course of studies, that is, through a "program." The worst part of "vocational education" is, however, that it is being administered as training of the "second-rate." The youngsters who are "not good enough" to go through the "academic" course of studies are being pushed into ''vocational education" as a means of keeping them off the streets and out of mischief until they are old enough to quit school. What we need in modern society are people who can acquire skills by having a knowledge foundation. We need only a fairly small number of people who are purely theoretical. But we need an infinite number of people capable of using theory as the basis of skill for practical application in work. These have to be "technologists" rather than "skilled craftsmen." The ablest of the young, the most gifted intellectually, the most brilliant ones need, even more than the dimwits, the ability of the "technologist" to apply knowledge to work through a knowledge-based skill. At the same time, the academically slow student needs the knowledge foundation to have any skill worth having. In other words, we will have to replace today's "vocational training" by the education of technologists. This will have to be "general" education, indeed in the true sense a "liberal" education. It should be a cornerstone of tomorrow's education for everybody. * * On this point, the recent studies of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) are highly instructive. In analyzing the technology gap between the United States and Europe, these studies found that Europe has proportionately more scientists than the United States. What it lacks are educated managers at lower and middle levels.

Equally important is the training and formation of perception and emotion in school. This is needed, however we conceive the ends of education. The trained perception and the disciplined emotion are as pertinent to the ability to earn a livelihood as they are to the mature human personality. They are man, above all. Indeed it is perception, especially tactile perception through the hand, that largely forms the mind of the child (as the great contemporary psychologist, Jean Piaget of Geneva, has proved in countless observations). Perception and emotion are trained, developed, and disciplined only in the experience of performance, that is, only under the challenge of objective standards that exist no matter what the individual's ability, inclinations, or proficiency. Such standards exist for the beginner only in the arts. There alone applies what my piano teacher used to say to me when I was a child: "You will never play Mozart like the virtuosi, the real musicians; but there is no reason why you should not play your scales like them." In playing an instrument or in paintingin fact, in all the artsthere are absolute standards even for the lowliest beginner. There is direct experience of what performance demands. There is achievement. (Writing poetry or a short story makes performance demands too. But because the level of abstraction is so much higher in the verbal area, achievement is hardest to obtain and performance more difficult to perceive for the beginner than in the performing or graphic arts with their immediacy of experience.) Today music appreciation is a respected academic discipline (even though it tends to be a deadly bore for the kids who have to memorize a lot of names when they have never heard the music). Playing an instrument or composing are considered, however, amateurish or "trade school." This is not very bright, even if school is considered vocational preparation for the scribe. When school becomes general education for everyone, it is lunacy. I am talking about a good deal more than new subjects. I am talking about the approach that is needed to design education on different assumptions. In the past, every segment of our school system was looked upon as an entity in itself, as the last school for the great majority of its pupils and as the only place where specific sub-

jects or vocational skills could be acquired during the student's lifetime. Today the correct assumption is, however, that the great majority of students will proceed from each level of the school system to the next higher oneand then come back as adults more than once. We need variety and diversity, to be sure; but we need no longer start out with the question: "What do the youngsters have to know at age twelveor age fifteenor age seventeenwhen they will stop going to school for the rest of their lives?" We can assume that they will stay for at least ten and probably twelve or more years. At the same time, we now know that the most important thing they will have to learn is not this or that subject matter. The most important thing they will have to learn is how to learn. The most important thing, in other words, is not specific skills, but a universal skillthat of using knowledge and its systematic acquisition as the foundation for performance, skill, and achievement. Educators have always known that this is the proper purpose of education. In the past they never had a chance to try to accomplish it. Now they have reached what they have hoped for for so many centuries: universal education for many years. Now they can use it for what they wanted to do all along. But the result will be a very different school and a very different education from anything we now have or envision. Educators can no longer assume that somebody else will do the educational job for them. With everybody going to school till adulthood, school has become the place for learning whatever one needs in order to be both human being and effective. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; A different challenge to the content and structure of education will be posed by the imminent conflict between extended schooling and continuing education. As long as work was primarily experience, that is, until the last decades, "school" and "work" were on different planes. One started to "work" when one stopped "going to school.'' And conversely, what one had learned in school had to last throughout the rest of one's working life. Everything the youngster might have to know in the way of general, theoretical concepts and knowledge had, therefore, to be crammed into the early years of schooling, before he went to

work. There never was enough time. The result was unrelenting pressure to extend the years of schooling, that is, to keep the young in school even longer. But when knowledge is applied to work, we need continuing education, that is, the frequent return of the experienced and accomplished adult to formal learning. Then it makes absolutely no sense to attempt to give the youngster everything he will need. Indeed it becomes absurd. He does not yet know what knowledge he will need ten or fifteen years hence. What he does know increasingly is that he will need things that are not yet available. It is commonplace today that every engineer is obsolete ten or fifteen years after graduation, and has to go back to school to be "retrained." The same applies to the physician and the mathematician, to the accountant and the teacher, in short to anyone who is expected to apply knowledge to work. The very fact that we are using knowledge rather than experience makes change inevitable. For knowledge by definition innovates, searches, questions, and changes. The more people know the more often they will go back to school throughout their working life. The more people have learned, the more they have come to rely on organized learning, the more they get into the habit of going to school. But also, the more they know, the more conscious they are of their ignorance and the more aware of new capacity to perform, of new knowledge, and of the need to hone their knowledge again and again. We have had "adult education" for a century or more, but formerly it was schooling for the poorly educated. It aimed at giving the bright but poor the education their wealthy contemporaries had received as youngsters. Continuing education of highly educated people was confined to the military until World War II. Today, however, it is the fastest growing part of our educational system, and pretty general throughout the professions. The academic community is still somewhat suspicious of anyone past adolescence who wants to learn. Yet at least there is no longer open resistance to continuing education. But its implications are not yet fully seen. One implication is that we can now recognize the period in a person's life and career when a given subject matter is learned best.

We can now decide when the student should be exposed to this or that topic, rather than insist that he get it while he is under the thumb of the school, that is, in his early years. If a subject is learned to greater advantage after a man has gathered experience, we can postpone its study until he comes back as an accomplished practitioner. For we can now be increasingly certain that the accomplished practitioners will indeed come back. Many subjects are better learned by experienced older men. Management is one of them; in the law, in medicine, in engineering, in education, in architecture, and in many other fields, there are, equally, areas that the inexperienced youngster can hardly learn and the beginner rarely needs. The most important areas in any practice are, as a rule, accessible most easily to the man of experience, and are most meaningful to him. Today we try to enable the youngster without experience to understand such areas by "simulating" real-life experience. This is the essence of "case study." But how much better and easier it would be to use genuine direct experience as the foundation for work in these areas. These are also the areas where only the advanced practitioner needs much knowledge. To know a great deal about organization planning is essential to a manager. But it is not particularly helpful or meaningful to the young engineer. By waiting until a man has advanced, we make sure that we direct our efforts where they are likely to do some good. Most of the young, into whose skulls we try to cram these topics with great effort, will either not reach a position where they can use the knowledge, or will have forgotten it anyhow by the time they get far enough along to use it. Continuing education need not be education in specialized subjects of use only to the highly advanced professional. The most general subjectsphilosophy, perhaps, or historyalso make more sense as education for the experienced adult. Specialties are what the young learn best and need most. The "specialties" needed todayas will be discussed in Chapter 16are not, however, Biology or Modern History. They are fields of application, e.g., Environmental Control or Far-Eastern Area Studies in which a good many of the traditional

specialized disciplines come together and become effective knowledge. After all, the natural progression is not from generalist to specialist, but the other way around. For what makes a generalist is the ability to hold a specialty against the sum total of experience, that is, to relate it to the general. To be sure, the young need a foundation in the general, and they need the big vision, but the synthesis which is the true generalization is largely meaningless to them. For this reason, continuing education may be where the true generalist will come into being. It may be the stage where we look at the whole, the "big picture," where we can take the "philosophical view" and where we can ask: "What does it all mean?" If educators give any thought to the question, they assume that we should have both ever-extended schooling and continuing education. But the two are actually in opposition. Extended schooling assumes that we will cram more and more into the preparation for life and work. Continuing education assumes that school becomes integrated with life. Extended schooling still assumes that one can only learn before one becomes an adult. Continuing education assumes that one learns certain things best as an adult. Above all, extended schooling believes that the longer we keep the young away from work and life, the more they will have learned. Continuing education assumes, on the contrary, that the more experience in life and work people have, the more eager they will be to learn and the more capable they will be of learning. To the extent that continuing education becomes the norm, we will actually raise the question whether all these years of sitting in school as a youngster are necessary and useful. We will become impatient at keeping the young in school until they are almost middle-aged, as is now the fashion. We will, in other words, rediscover experiencebut order it on a knowledge basis. Experience argues strongly that the assumptions of continuing education are a good deal more valid than those of extended schooling. Any teacher who has worked with students with adult experiences has been surprised by their eagerness, their motivation and, above all, by their superior performance in studying. This has been the common experience in every one of the programs in which

students take ordinary jobs in the community and away from school during part of the year. * The most impressive evidence of the impact of experience on the capacity and willingness to learn was, of course, the returning veterans after World War II who flooded the American campuses under the G.I. Bill of Rights. Every educator then "knew" that these large masses of students would inevitably "debase" academic standards. Instead, every teacher found out that the real problem was that these students were so incredibly superior that they made demands the faculty could not satisfy. Similarly every one of the continuing-education programs for highly educated adults has revealed that the learning performance of these people is far above that of even the most brilliant of the younger students. Maybe they need a little time to get used to systematic studying again. But they make up for this in superior drive, in the ability to grasp the meaning of what they are being taught, and in the ability to use a theoretical concept to organize their own experience. Continuing education is a big step beyond traditional education such as extended schooling still represents. It draws the necessary conclusions from the great shift that is making knowledge the foundation for work. It makes school a continuing part of life and work. For surely if knowledge is to be our foundation for organizing experience, then experience in turn must continuously be projected on knowledge to make us see the meaning of what we know as well as the meaning of what we do. In a knowledge society, school and life can no longer be separate. They have to be linked in an organic process in which the one feeds back on the other. And this continuing education attempts to do. As continuing education advances, we can therefore expect it to collide with extended schooling. Then we will have to face a policy decision: Do we want to continue to have more years of schooling for the young? Or would we rather have more years of schooling throughout life, which then would mean fewer years of schooling (or * Examples are the "cooperative program" at Antioch, Yellow Springs, Ohio; the program for engineering students at the University of Cincinnati; and the "nonresident" program at Bennington College, Vermont.

at least no more of them) for the young who have not yet started to work. This is an issue educators have not yet faced up toin fact, most of them do not suspect its existence. That it will have to be faced is, however, guaranteed by the social impacts of the "educational explosion." The Social Impacts of Education Advanced education for everyone is a great achievement. But the greater the achievement, the higher the price to be paid for it. The price for universal advanced education was, therefore, bound to be high. Indeed the social impacts of long years of schooling present us with problems we have never faced before, problems we are not yet equipped to handle. 1. To keep everyone in school until the age of eighteen or twenty greatly extends the years of adolescence. Adolescence is not a natural "stage." It is a man-made, cultural condition. The adolescent lives simultaneously on two age levels; his "cultural age" is lower than his chronological age. Chronological age is determined by the years one has already lived. It is physiological and controls physical and mental maturity, independent, on the whole, of society or culture. Nutrition, however, is important. Because we are so much better fed, we actually mature physically and mentally earlier than our ancestors did, even though we live so much longer. The stories of the earlier sexual maturity of our ancestors are myth. Both boys and girls in the West (and in Japan) mature sexually several years earlier these days than they did a century or two ago. But cultural age is determined by the number of years an individual can expect to live, or at least to be productive. Cultural age, in large measure, determines what behavior is expected of the individual and what emotional maturity he attains. The more we expand life expectancy and lifespan, therefore, the younger people are culturally. A young man of twenty-five today, who can expect to be still in good

health at age sixty-five, is culturally younger than a young man was a hundred years ago at age fifteen, when he could not expect to last much beyond age thirty-five. As a result, the young man of twenty-five is expected to seem younger and to be emotionally less mature than the young man of fifteen was a century ago. Yet physically (and perhaps even mentally) the boy of fifteen today is more mature than the boy of fifteen was then. This gap between the attainment of physical and mental maturity at age fifteen and of cultural maturity which now does not occur until age twenty-five is adolescence. Adolescence is a recent invention. It was unknown until Goethe published his first book, The Sorrows of Young Werther, when himself just barely twenty. It is no accident that this book appeared in 1770 and is thus a contemporary of Watt's steam engine, of Adam Smith's The Wealth of Nations, and of the rise of the first class that had a substantially higher-than-traditional life expectancy, the urban middle classes of the commercial revolution in the West. Adolescence is of necessity a time of conflict between one's capabilities and what one is expected and permitted to do. It is a time of ambiguity. The adolescent is forever being told by the adult world to "act his age," that is, to behave according to his chronological maturity. But he is also being told to stay out of adult concerns, that is, to behave according to his cultural age. Whatever he does, he is wrong. He does violence either to his chronological or to his cultural age. He is, therefore, inevitably a problem to himself as well as to society. In traditional society, right up to the eighteenth century, there was no problem of this sort because there was no adolescence. The child became a young adult through an initiation ritewhether the circumcision rite of a primitive tribe, or the rite of knighthood, or being sent away from home to his apprenticeship. From that moment on, he was expected to put childish ways behind him and to be a young adult in an adult world. Extending the years of schooling inevitably extends adolescence. Schools have become, by design, institutions for the preservation of adolescence. They keep the young person in the most unnatural society, a society composed exclusively of his contemporaries. School, even if it builds performance and experience into its curriculum to

the fullest extent possible, is finite, certain, predictable. The student who decides to major in Oriental languages rather than in mathematics knows what this means in the way of courses, studies, examinations, and prerequisites. In school one cannot become an adult. The best example is the delayed adolescence so common among highly trained young physicians. They have a great deal of knowledge. They have seen death and suffering, human stupidity, greed and cowardiceand also dedication and courageamong patients as well as among colleagues. Yet they may remain callow adolescents well into their thirties, that is, until they have been out in practice five years or so. As long as they are in training, the loudspeaker or the telephone wakes them up, the schedule tells them what to do, and the attending physician or chief of service makes the final decisions. They simply are not allowed to become adults. The same delayed adolescence is only too noticeable among graduate students who stay on year after year in an environment in which all the emphasis is on their being "promising" and almost none on their performing. Whether it was wise or not to extend adolescence by extending years of schooling is not relevant. We have done it. But we surely do not want to prolong it unnecessarily. Most people recover (though there are indications that prolonged adolescence can become a chronic disease). Yet it is not a healthy condition for society and even less so for the individual. A society in which a large part of the young, the physically healthy, the well educated, and the promising live in the limbo of adolescence, neither grown up nor productive nor yet still children, is a society plagued by juvenile delinquency, hasty marriage, and excessive divorce. Adolescents are beset alike by fear of taking responsibility and by bitter frustration at being kept out of power and opportunity. Above all, the society is ruled by the oldfor all its appearances of being dominated by teen-agers. If the young feel that they cannot trust anyone over thirtyas the slogan of today's teen-agers has itthey have, in fact, abdicated. They have admitted that they can neither become partners of those in power nor overthrow them. The adolescents, in other words, have a perfectly legitimate grievance. But nothing much can be done about it. The only remedy is to

enable the individual to break out of adolescence as soon as possible rather than be confined to it indefinitely by a rigid, unimaginative, and uniform system of education. What the adolescent needs are opportunities for experience and performance throughout the years of school. What he needs are opportunities to do what the child of yesterday did without special efforts: to work with adults as a young adult. The student needs to get a little experience in school, a little achievement, a little performance. The problem of adolescence demands that we build exposure to areas of experience and performance (especially in the arts) into the normal process of growing up and going to school. We must make it possible for the young person to test himself in work, to spend a few years as an adult worker, and then, if he so desires, go back to school. We badly need, for instance, to reverse the recent tendency of the American graduate school to clamp down on the night student who goes out for an advanced degree while working during the day. Of course, the young man or woman who holds a job and comes to school in the evenings is an administrative problem. He is a little more likely to drop out without completing the master's or doctor's degree than is the fulltime student who has nothing else to do. The part-time student may also be a less docile pupiland no teacher, no matter what he may say, really likes having people in his class who know more about the subject than he does. But to sacrifice the self-motivated adult student to the administrative convenience of the educators is antisocial and should not be tolerated. For hundreds of years the educators quite properly pleaded and cajoled for a few more years of schooling. They saw their brightest pupils leaving school just when they were beginning to learn something. They saw even more of the brightest not going to school at all. For centuries the educators fought, with good reason, to make a little education universal and a lot of education accessible. They have achieved these goals. Only the United States has so far committed herself to higher education as a "right." But this will sooner or later become general in the advanced countries. But now that we have, or are going to have, all the years of schooling one can possibly ask for, there is no point in pushing for more years of school-

ing. Now the goal of the educator has to be to make the years of schooling fully productive, rather than to get more of them. Now, above all, it is his job to think through how one can acquire adequate knowledge in less time rather than how one can justify more time for school. The job today is to prevent an unnecessary extension of adolescence. 2. Long years of schooling create another new problem: the young man (or less commonly the young woman) who is no longer in school even though below the age when we expect young people to stop their formal education. He is increasingly "unemployable." American statistics still include in the "working population" anyone above the age of fourteen. But no one under eighteen or nineteen in this country is really considered employable. He should, public opinion believes, be in school. If he works, it cannot be in a "real job." It is a "summer job" or a "week-end job,'' but not a job which has anything to do with his future work or indeed with the working world of adults. This was vividly expressed in a recent "public service advertisement" in the New York subways. It showed a husky teen-ager with the legend: "Boy. That's what they'll call you all your life if you drop out of school now." In the United States, this development has gone the farthest. But it occurs whenever or wherever the years of schooling are being prolonged. It is, according to all reports, appearing in the Russian cities. It is also appearing in Japan. The teen-age jobs in Japan are still there. The traditional industries of pre-industrial Japan, the small shop, the lacquer maker or the silk weaver still want boys of fifteen who have graduated from middle school. But except in the remote villages in the poor northan area culturally and economically somewhat akin to America's Deep Souththe middle-school graduate is no longer considered employable. The traditional industries of Japan, therefore, are drying up for lack of employable manpower. This explains why the young apprentices who, by all Japanese traditions, are in honorable and secure work, and who can aspire to becoming independent craftsmen and artisans themselves (if not to being adopted by their master and becoming his successor) feel uprooted, dispossessed, and lost. They tend to join the Sokka Gakai, the sect of the alienated and uprooted.

In this country it is the urban, young Negro who is threatened most by this development. To jump from rural illiteracy to twelve years of schooling in one generation is more of a jump than any group can be expected to make, more of a jump than any other group has ever made in the United States or elsewhere (the same problem and for the same reason exists for the Oriental Jew in Israel). Yet if the Negro boy in the American city drops out of school before he is eighteen, he is a "boy" and not a young adult. The traditional laborer's jobshandyman, deliveryman, garage attendant, gardenerstill exist; their number is probably growing. Their pay is low, to be sure, and job security tenuous. But the pay is a good bit better, both absolutely and relative to other wages, than traditionally given to unskilled, casual workers. And young Negroes need the jobs, economically and psychologically. But the jobs go unfilled. For culturally the dropout is "not employable." There is something the matter with him, even in his own eyes. The dropout is a failure of society. He is a failure of the educator who does not know how to attract and hold young people in school till they have reached the age at which our society is willing to let them go to work. The educator has defaulted on his first duty, the duty to the student. We will indeed come to measure the schools by their ability to attract and hold the potential dropoutnot by compulsion or by lowering standards, but by making school more meaningful, more exciting, and more rewarding. The dropout is the quality control of education. Today few schools, and few teachers, would pass this test. The majority of those who do not drop out stay in school not because they want to, but because they are made toby their parents and by their community. In spirit most of the white, middle-class youngsters are dropouts, too, kept in school only by parental and community pressure. The twin problems of adolescence and dropouts indicate that we will have to learn to build school curricula that serve the individual, that is, school curricula composed of standard units that can be put together to serve individual needs, to satisfy individual aspirations, and to conform to the one fact we really know about growing up: that no two people ever grow up exactly alike. 3. The most serious impact of the long years of schooling is, how-

ever, the "diploma curtain" between those with degrees and those without. It threatens to cut society in two for the first time in American history. We are in danger of confining access to opportunity to thosestill less than half of our young peoplewho have stayed in school beyond high school, and particularly to those who have finished college. Even ordinary jobs are increasingly reserved for those who have at least finished high school. We thus are denying full citizenship in the knowledge society to the large group15 to 20 per cent perhapswho stopped before they could get a high school diploma. And we are sharply curtailing access to opportunities for half the populationthe ones who don't attend college. This is not only new in American history. It is singularly stupid. The great strength of American society throughout our history lay in our willingness to use human resources, in our willingness to put ability, ambition, and dedication to productive use wherever it arose. We never fully lived up to this principle. We certainly did not live up to it with respect to women. And we disregarded it entirely in the case of the black man. But never before did we deny it explicitly as we are now doing. By denying opportunity to those without higher education, we are denying access to contribution and performance to a large number of people of superior ability, intelligence, and capacity to achieve. There is not much correlation between ability to do well in school and ability to perform in life and work (except perhaps in purely academic work). There is no reason to believe that the diploma certifies too much more than that the holder has sat a long time. Human beings mature much too unevenly to put trust in a diploma as a final test of a young man's "potential" and future performance and capacity. Even if the diploma, or its absence, mismeasures only a fraction of our young people (say, one out of four) we cannot afford to lose those that have been unjustly or wrongly cast out. Actually the percentage must be much higher. For going to school beyond high school is still, even among our white population, in large part a matter of accident, family tradition, wealth, local mores, or the luck of being taught by a good teacher. To be sure, three-quarters or more of our present college graduates each year have parents without college education. But conversely a large proportion, a good half or so,

of the children of parents without college education only go to college if there is special encouragement. Limiting access to opportunity to those with a diploma is a crass denial of all fundamental American beliefsbeliefs, by the way, that have been amply validated by experience. Maybe such a diploma curtain can be justified in a country where the diploma only controls access to a minority of opportunities, as it used to do. Maybe in a country with a tradition of rigid classes, "meritocracy" (to use the particularly ugly word the British have invented for control of access to life's opportunities by the diploma) can be defended as broadening individual opportunitiesthough the new rigidities will, I predict, be as stultifying and oppressive as the old class barriers ever were. But in the United States, where class never controlled, the substitution of the diploma for performance as the key to opportunity and advancement, restricts, oppresses, and injures individual and society alike. I expect, within ten years or so, to see a proposal before one of our state legislatures or up for referendum to ban, on applications for employment, all questions related to educational statusjust as questions regarding race, religion, sex, or age are now banned in a good many states. I, for one, shall vote for this proposal if I can. "Academic ability" is also an accident of birth, and not a very meaningful one at that. Outlawing the question on the application blank will, of course, do as little as outlawing similar questions regarding race has done for the employment opportunities of the Negro. We need to punch big holes in the diploma curtain through which the able and ambitious can move even though they have not sat long enough on school benches to satisfy the schoolmasters' requirements. Employers, and especially large companies, need to look in their work force for the people of proven performance and willingness to achieve, though they lack the formal requirements. Indeed, to spend on this part of the money now spent on college recruitment would be highly profitable. With everyone trying to get the same college graduates, no one can hope to get anyone particularly outstanding, or indeed anything but mediocrity. All one can do is bid up the entrance salary. Perhaps there are fewer big fish in the pond of those who have not gone to

college. But the individual employer's chance of landing one of these big fish is infinitely greater in the pond where nobody else fishes than it is among college graduates where he competes even for the minnows with every other employer in the land. * Once we have identified those performers who lack the formal credentials issued by the schoolmaster, we can give them access to knowledge easily enough. There are few cities in the United States today where continuing education in almost any area is not easily available. The schools will also have to develop an "earned degree" for those who have proved their ability in performance even though they lack the hours on the school bench and the credits for courses that would have entitled them to the normal diploma. The schools have to accept the fact that the diploma has become the passport to outside opportunities and that therefore it behooves them to acknowledge parallel paths of achievement. And the path of the "loner" who gets there his own way and without benefit of required courses is at least as good and honorable and worth at least as much, as the mapped and charted path of the orthodox school curriculum. The standards for this ''earned degree" would, of course, be highbut so they should be for any distinction, including the diploma one gets for attending school. If we do not eliminate the diploma curtain, it will turn the opportunity of knowledge into a nightmare. It will make the diploma into a symbol of discriminationwhich is what it has already become to the poor Negro in the ghetto. It will impoverish our society and economy, and deprive us of a great reservoir of human energies. It will corrode our ideals and make mockery of our professions. Perhaps worst of all, it will substitute the arrogance of title for the pride of accomplishment as the ruling passion of the knowledge society. * The one program of this kind of which I know is governmental and operates within a civil service. It is the Public Employment Career Development Program which the State of New Jersey has been running with considerable success since 1966.

15 The New Learning and the New Teaching Institutions that undergo as rapid an expansion as have the schools tend to outgrow their base as well as their structure. There is a point where quantitative change alters quality; and while we do not know with precision where this point lies, the schools have gone well beyond it. Such growth deforms and explodes any existing structure, any existing philosophy, any existing system. The educators still talk of minor changes, of adjustments and improvements. Few of them see much reason for radical changes. Yet education will in all likelihood be transformed within the next decades by giant forces from without. It will be changed, first, because it is headed straight into a major economic crisis. It is not that we cannot afford the high costs of education; we cannot afford its low productivity. We must get results from the tremendous investment we are making. Concretely we are forced to do so by the fact that we cannot indefinitely increase the number of teachers. Andsomething few understandmoney does not produce people. No matter how much money we allot, if the supply of people is exhausted, more money will not buy more people. It will only bid up the price. We are at the point where increased expenditure for education can only bid up the price without increasing the supply. We have to raise the productivity of education if we want to staff it.

It is only a slight exaggeration to say that by 1999, if present trends were to continue, half of the population of the United States would be up front teaching with half the population sitting and learning. And at three in the afternoon, the bell would ring and the two halves would exchange places. Of course this is not going to happen. Teaching today requires far too many people. It ought to be possible to do the job with far fewer. Teaching is where agriculture was around 1750, when it took some twenty men on the farm to feed one nonfarmer in the town. We have to make the teacher more productive, have to multiply his or her impact, have to increase greatly the harvest from his or her skill, knowledge, dedication, and effort. Otherwise we shall run out of teacherseven if we do not run out of money for education. The productivity of education is too low even for the richest country. It imposes an intolerable burden on the poor ones, and constitutes a major obstacle to their growth and development. They beggar themselvesand get nothing for it. India today, for instance, gives more schooling to a larger proportion of her population than the United States or Japan did at a comparable stage of development a century ago. She spends a larger proportion of her total national income on schools than we spent then. The achievement, statistically, is impressive. Four times as many Indian children are actually in school as there were when the British left twenty years ago. The Indian community colleges that have sprung up in the urban centers are fully the equals of the "academies" that were founded in such profusion in Ohio or Iowa a century ago. And yet all this tremendous educational effort is without discernible effect. A century ago in the United States and Japan, the new thrust of schooling produced enough educated people for a tremendous economic and social leap forward. But the comparable effort in India today is simply not adequate, nor is it adequate in other countries such as Turkey, West Africa, Malaya, or Colombia. The threshold of education needed for effective impact on a country's ability to grow and develop rapidly is clearly much higher today than it was a hundred years ago. Yet the effectiveness and productivity of education is no higher than it was then.

We are also heading straight into a pedagogic crisis. The college students who are in open rebellion against the educational establishment everywhere, no longer consider the classroom "relevant"! And irrelevance is the worst thing one can say about education. Worse still, today's small children are bored stiff by school. Small children cannot rebel by occupying the school or by building barricades in the street. They have, however, a much more potent weapon: they can stop learning. And this is what the generation now reaching school age is apparently about to do every place. It has become accustomed to a standard of effectiveness in communications that makes unendurable the low educational productivity of the typical classroom. Only a generation ago school opened up the world to children. It gave access to an experience that was infinitely wider, richer, and more colorful than the confined static environment that village and family provided. It was excitement, drama, vision, even in the staid and familiar words of the primer. Teaching was poor, and discipline often harsh and unimaginative. Yet to enter school was an adventure. This is still true in isolated, primitive areas. In rural Mexico, for instance, or in Indonesia, children still stream into the newly opened school, primitive and ill-equipped though it may be. They arrive full of zeal for school learning and excited with the new world the speller opens up. But in the developed areas of the world school no longer is the access to a new world of experience. It no longer is the educator. It is rather a pinched and anemic substitute. The preschool child, even in the peasant cottage, is today introduced to the world through radio and television in a much more direct, more effective, more gripping manner than the most gifted schoolmaster could emulate. Whatever the contents of the electronic messages, in form and style they are expert, masterly, teaching, communicating. Few messages are as carefully designed and as clearly communicated as the thirty-second television commercial. Every split second counts; every motion is in balance and rhythm; every word is a spell. Few teachers spend in their entire teaching careers as much time or thought on pre-

paring their classes as is invested in the many months of writing, drawing, acting, filming, and editing one thirty-second commercial. That it sells beer or toothpaste or a lipstick is irrelevant to the small child. What matters is that it conveys accessible information, clear image, and perfect comprehension. It is just the right length for the attention span of the small child. It is perfect "learning" in its methodology, is indeed the prototype of the ideal "program" with its three key elements: effective sequence of the material, validation through repetition, and self-motivation of the learner through pleasure. * Children enter school today with different perceptions and different expectations. A level of teaching that was acceptable to older generations, who had no standards of comparison, dissatisfies the children of the television age, bores them, offends them. They are in all probability infinitely more ready to learn than earlier generations were. Indeed they may be overstimulated to learn. Suddenly three-year-olds and four-year-olds are found to be eager and ready to read, especially if visual, tactile, and mental experiences are combined in the presentation of the material (as for instance in the much-publicized, computer-connected "talking typewriter"). The trouble with the "deprived" children from the black ghettos may be in part that they have learned far too much before they enter school. They, all our studies show, spend the most time in front of the TV setthere are few other experiences and stimulations in the slum. They may, therefore, both expect too much when they come to school, and expect it in different perceptual form. They may indeed live in McLuhan's "postliterate" world. The children do not know, of course, why they find school boring rather than exciting, and stifling rather than informative. But they react by not learning what is presented to them at so much lower a level of professional competence and pedagogic effectiveness than the level to which TV and radio have accustomed them. * That television exerts such tremendous fascination on children makes it all the more a matter of concern that its programming is so heavily preoccupied with sex, violence, and material possessions.

Myths and Knowledge in Education Equally important, we are now beginning to have the knowledge to change education. Teaching is the only major occupation of man for which we have not yet developed tools that make an average person capable of competence and performance. In teaching we rely on the "naturals," the ones who somehow know how to teach. Nobody seems to know, however, what it is the "naturals" do that the rest of us do not do. No one knows what they do not do that the rest of us do. "Natural genius" is a very scarce resource. No one has encountered many ''natural teachers" in his own school years. Indeed there are a great many people around who in twelve or sixteen years of school have not had the benefit of a single good teacher. The further along we go in school, the rarer are good teachers and the drearier, as a rule, is the learning experience. The process seems to be unpredictable. There are no measurements for education. There are statistics on how many people are in school and how many graduate. But no one knows whether the students learn anything, let alone how much. We pour money and efforts into education, but what we get out we have to take on trust and hope. What we need are not "better teachers." Indeed we cannot hope to get "better teachers" in quantity. In no area of human endeavor have we ever been able to upgrade the human race. We get better results by giving the same people the right tools and by organizing their work properly. We need to "learn smarter." It will be argued that we have teacher-training institutes with all kinds of courses in all areas of education. But this is self-delusion. What our teachers' colleges do is something badly needed and useful; but it is not to teach anyone how to teach. They are recruiting agencies. They procure potential teachers and give them a seal of approval that guarantees their employment and entitles them to tenure. It also gives them self-confidence, and this is no small thing. But beyond this it is hard to see what the graduate of one of these institutions knows or can do that the seventeen-year-old high school girl of yesterday did not know or do when she started to teach elementary school in the rural Midwest. It is not the fault of the educators that they do not know what to

teach future teachers, just as it was not the fault of the professors of medicine at the University of Paris in 1700the doctors whom Molière so ruthlessly (but still not ruthlessly enough) castigatedthat they did not teach their students how to diagnose and cure patients. Sick people demand to be treated. People who need knowledge demand to be taught. All one can do is try, even if one knows virtually nothing. We still know very little about learning and teaching. But we do know that what "everybody knows" about learning and teaching is largely wrong. And this may well be a greater and more important advance than any of the new science and the new technology of which we are so conscious today. Three specific findings emerge from the research done in learning and teaching in recent yearsand to a lesser extent, from the study of what actually goes on in school. 1. We have had, since time immemorial, two basic theories regarding learning. The behaviorists asserted that learning is a mechanical process of drill and repetition, forming a mental habit. The cognitive school, on the other hand, taught that learning is understanding, meaning, insight. On one point, however, both schools have always been in agreementthat they were mutually exclusive: learning would have to be either behavioral or cognitive. This we now know to be wrong. The two are complementary. Only they are different, dealing with different things. Man is both behavior and understanding, both habit and reflection. And the two together form knowledge. In layman's language what we know now can be expressed by saying that "what can be learned cannot be taught, and what can be taught cannot be learned." At the same time, we know that one can only learn if there is also teaching. And one cannot be taught unless there is a good deal of learning. 2. Teachers have always known that there were "bright" students and "dumb" students, and that the difference between them was as the difference between day and night. Psychologists have proved that children vary but little in their learning abilities. Differences in school performance should be no greater and no more common than they are in the most important

and most difficult learning process, that of the infant. But as we know from the pioneering work of Jean Piaget there are tremendous differences in rhythm, attention span, and learning pace, especially among young children. If these are suppressed, as all traditional schooling has had to do, "dumb" children are created. If these are used, however, learning energies are liberated. 3. It has always been believed that the teacher spends his time teaching in the classroomand no one ever looked to test this belief. We have, in other words, done with respect to the teacher's work what, before the advent of scientific management, we used to do for all work: we guessed. The first systematic time and motion study of work showed that "what everybody had always known" was pure nonsense. We found this true again the moment we looked at what actually happens in a classroom. Teachers would like to teach, to be sure, but most of them are not teaching, but baby-sitting. Most of them spend a great deal of their time in custodial activities, aimed at keeping the children quiet. Some of our studies make it appear plausible that the productivity of the teacher may, after all, not be so very low; it is simply that he (or she) spends so little time teaching. Certainly one of the main aims of any change in the schools must be to multiply the time that the pupil spends on learning and the teacher spends on teaching. A few additional words need to be said about each of these findings. As to the first (1), "learning" is the acquisition of information, and this is largely a mechanical process. The mechanics are unknown, but we know that they are different from the "mechanics" of any machine, such as, for instance, the computer. We acquire informationwhat the layman would call ''facts"by repeating until the response becomes automatic and unthinking, that is, until we have created a "memory." This is how all of us learned to speak. This is also how all of us learned the multiplication tableif we learned it at all. Nobody ever learned to multiply by being "bright" or by being "mathematically gifted"; he learned it by rote and repetition. Information, however, will only be learned if it is presented as a "program." This means, first, that the material has to be in a sequence in which one piece of information leads to the next piece to

be learned. It means, second, that the arrangement must show clear purposethe sequence must make sense to the student. It means, third, that what has been learned earlier has to be repeated again and again, and applied again and again; it has to be reaffirmed or else it is forgotten. The reason why even children with little mathematical ability or interest can learn the four fundamental operations of arithmeticaddition, subtraction, multiplication, and divisionis not that these operations are simple. On the contrary, they are difficult and abstract parts of mathematics; even advanced mathematicians have difficulty explaining them. But they are repeated again and again and again, are used every day and are thus reaffirmed constantly. In the case of mathematical topics taught later, this is no longer true. They are learned once and then not used again. As a result, they are forgotten fast. Repetition is necessary also to make sure that we have really learned. The child who misses addition or multiplication the first time almost invariably gets a second chance soon, and a third one and a fourth one. When he gets to logarithms, however, he normally gets only one exposure. If he does not learn themor if he should happen to be away from school that day, or just daydreaminghe is lost. The motivation, the incentive, the reward for the acquisition of information must be built into the program itself. External rewards are not motivators. At every step the learner must receive satisfaction from the act of learning and from doing it right. Learning can only be done by the learner. It cannot be done by the "teacher." The teacher can only be a help or an impediment to learning. No piano teacher knows which of her pupils will turn into a pianist. But every piano teacher knows, almost immediately, which of the pupils will not even turn into a beginner and will be at best a problem for a few years before his harassed mother finally gives up. It is the pupil whom the teacher has to supervise in doing his scales and finger exercises, that is, in learning. The pupil who needs external pushing and supervision for learning will not learn. Supervision sets up internal resistance and fatigue

which make learning all but impossible. All the information, all the affirmation, and all the motivation should lie in the process of learning itself. Teaching, on the other hand, has to do with meaning and insight. It has to do with application of information, with reaching out, with understanding and enjoyment, and with the insight that cannot be learned. Teaching has a lot more to do with perception than it has to do, apparently, with intellect. And teaching is done by example. Teaching requires a "teacher." The teacher can be a book, a piece of music, perhaps even the student himself. But it is done best by an older, understanding, guiding, helpful, challenging person. Just as learning is individual, teaching is mutual. The teacher who supervises learning does not "teach"; he (or she) polices. A very good teacher doing this will not disturb learning; in fact, this is our present definition of the "good teacher." But even for the "good teacher," it is a waste of time that should be devoted to teaching. And the ordinary teacher who supervises learning does more harm than good. Teaching may turn out not to be very difficult. It is also very enjoyable. It is simply not being done because we misuse teachers to supervise learning. We misuse them because we have not created the proper "programs" for learning. We have not given the student the tools he needs to do what he wants, namely, to learn. As a result, we do not allow the teacher to do what he should be doing, namely, to teach. It will not be simple to create the right "program." We can do it fairly well for skills that can be defined, i.e., welding or flying a jet plane. To write a "program" for learning history is something else againif only because information in history without understanding of history is as useless as is understanding of history without information. Still we do know some fundamentals. The perennial discussion of whether the student needs to learn "facts" or learn "meaning" is pointless. The human being, in order to be able to understand, has to have a substantial information base. It is only by acquiring the habit of learning that one becomes capable of understanding. On the other hand, it is only by understanding

that one can do anything with learning, including remembering it. Students, whether infants or adults, need drill, that is, organized systematic repetition of information. And they need understanding and meaning. This does not mean that any drill is the right one. Whether there is much point in learning the dates of the kings of England or irregular Latin verbs is not at issue here. But to learn irrelevant information and to learn it well is still more educational than to learn no information. Our schools of education and our departments of philosophy or psychology still contain both behaviorists and cognitionists. And they still talk as if we had to choose between the two approaches, and as if each contained "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth." Actually we should be debating the proper balance, the proper relationship and the integration between the two. We need both learning and teaching. And because we now know that these are different, though interdependent, we can now hope to learn more about both. As to the second finding (2), nothing man learns is half as difficult and complicated as what practically all of us learned in the first few years of our livestalking, walking, seeing a complex world, complex relationships to people, or even toilet training. One child is an early talker, and then is likely to be slow in his motor coordination or late in his toilet habits. Another child starts feeding himself at eight months, and may not say a word until he is past three years. In other words, children develop at their own rate. Yet by the time they are three or four years old, most children have made it in all areas. Most of them are "normal" by the time they need to have these skills. Indeed the child that has been pushed by his parents into talking or walking or toilet habits while he was busy learning something else is the child with emotional problems, the child that stutters, wets his bed, or is afraid. The speed with which any one of these early skills is learned has nothing to do with talent. The late talker may become a great orator. There is no correlation between early ability to walk and being an athlete later on. The correlation is to things that are fundamental to the person rather than to areas of achievement. The correlation is to rhythm of learning, pace, and attention span. These are fundamentals

of personalitywhether genetic and inborn or the result of early experiences we do not know (but it does not greatly matter for our purposes here). These learning patterns are not confined to infancy, though the younger the person is, the greater the differences in rhythm, attention span, and learning speed. If however, the school imposes uniformity on all children in a classroom, it makes sure that a large proportion of the students (though we do not know how large) will develop emotional resistance and fatigue. This will make them appear, even to themselves, to be dumb and backward. If we allow each child to learn whatever has to be learned within his rhythm, his attention span, and his learning speed, he will get there just as surely as any other child. He will be just as "bright," only in his own best way. No one maintains that there are no differences in ability. But it seems more likely that over a wide range of "normality," abilities are concentrated in different areas at different stages of growth and development, e.g., in music or sports or painting or reading, than that there are differences in over-all ability. There is also increasing evidence that abilities develop unevenly. One adolescent may be "ahead" in musical ability at the cost of being temporarily "behind" in something else, just as one baby is ahead in walking and the other one in playing games or in feeding himself. Differences in abilityas against the differences in pace and rhythmare also socially conditioned. The Negro slum child at age two is as bright as the white child from the professional suburban family. By the time he gets to school, at age six, he has been dulled. A main reason is the lack of recognition for achievement. What creates "dumb" children is the expectation of failure rather than natural endowment or the lack of it. We knowthough only in the roughest outline so farunder what conditions children, and human beings in general, can learn. They can learn if use is made of their own rhythm, their own pacing, and their own attention span. They can learn, in other words, if there is an "individual" programwhich is exactly what every baby has when he learns to sit up, to walk, to play games, to feed himself, and so on.

It is startling to watch a group of school children who have each their own individual program. One child will sit and work for two hours on one subject and will not vary his speed at all during that period. Another child will start every time at top speed and then slow down or switch subjects every fifteen minutes or so. A third one will start slow and speed up and will stay on one subject for an hour, but on the next one only a few minutes, coming back, however, again and again. Yet eventually they all learn about the same in all areas and subjectsand in about the same time span. There is another way we can satisfy individual natures: the rousing emotional experience of the "massed choir." We can, especially with young people, create a genuine collective speed, attention span, and rhythm. But this requires the emotional excitement that people, and especially children, get from doing something together, in rhythm with one anotherand preferably with great, but organized, noise. In Japan today, Professor Suzuki has hundreds of tots, age three or so, playing the violin, and playing it rather well, even though they cannot read notation. They play in unison and in one rhythm, and get the same "charge" men get from marching in step. In some educational experiments with deprived Negro children, results have been achieved by making the alphabet, addition and subtraction, reading and writing a rousing group experience in which the whole class shouts the right answers in a rhythmic chant. There is some reason to believe that the child needs a balance of these two kinds of "programs"the one that utilizes his own individual and highly personal style, and the one that integrates his personality into a group. The one way a child does not learn is by himself, rather than in the "massed choir," but chained to a rhythm, pace, and attention span which are alien to him and imposed on him. This is, however, exactly what every school has done traditionally (and has had to do in the absence of individual programs). As to finding three (3), we have lately been treated to quite a few "horror stories" about what goes on in the classrooms of our city

slums. But while the classrooms of our "good" schools are genteel places, they are not much more productive. The teacher spends little time on teaching, and the students spend little time on learning. While the teacher prods, cajoles, and supervises one child in the class, the remaining twenty-four daydream. The teacher cannot spend much time with any one student. But since the student has no tools of learning himself, he does nothing until the teacher has turned his or her attention to him. Children do need more time for daydreaming than the curriculum officially allows. Some of it may be highly productive time. But there is little doubt that most of it is wasteor else students of all ages would not be so bored as most of them are most of the time. If only students were permitted to learn, they could acquire the total information content of modern schooling in a fraction of the timeand could make the experience enjoyable to boot. What we need to do is to relieve the teacher of all but teaching work. Then the teacher, in contrast to today, would have time to teach individuals. This is, of course, the essence of the tutorial system, such as Oxford and Cambridge have used for a long time. But it is rather late to start being taught at age eighteen or twenty. Most infants are being "taught" before they go to school. That the slum family does not do enough teaching is the reason why the slum child is deprivedand we rightly consider this exceptional and a disgrace. But the years between the time the child has acquired the fundamentals at home in his family and the time he goes to Oxford or Cambridgequite apart from the fact that not many go there anyhoware important years. These are the years in which there should be the maximum of teaching. To give the teacher time to teach is the key to multiplying his (or her) effectiveness. We are, today, conducting experiments (e.g., in Oakland Community College in Michigan) in which a "master teacher" handles very large classes which meet only once or twice a week. But in between, the students are hard at work learning, without teacher or supervision, through carefully constructed programs. The master teacher therefore does nothing but teach. As a result, the individual student actually receives more personal attention than he

does in the typical "small" class in which a teacher mostly tries to get the students to do a little learning. In fact, the master teacher has time between his few classes for individual students, time spent on getting to know the student rather than on the student's "problems." We are still at the beginning. Indeed I have been guilty of great oversimplification. But we certainly can already reach two important conclusions. The first one is that the "dumb" child is the shame of the schools. The maxim ought to be: "There are no dumb children; there are only poor schools." The reason for there being "poor schools" is not the stupidity or incompetence of the teachers. It is the absence of the right tools and of the right methods. Secondly, teaching and learning are bound to undergo tremendous change in the next few decades. They will be transformed. Economic necessity forces us to tackle the job, no matter how great the resistance of citizens and educators. And the new understanding of teaching and learning will enable us to do the job. Whenever we have such a conjunction of needs and knowledge, drastic changes occur, and occur rapidly. The first teacher ever, that priest in preliterate Mesopotamia who sat down outside the temple with the kids and began to draw figures with a twig in the sand, would be perfectly at home in most classrooms in the world today. Of course, there is a blackboard, but otherwise there has been little change in tools and none in respect to methods. The one new teaching tool in the intervening 8,000 years has been the printed book. And that few teachers really know how to useor else they would not continue to lecture on what is already in the book. The priest in ancient Mesopotamia was also the first doctor. If he returned today to a modern operating room in the hospital, he would not conclude that he could do as well. Yet today's doctors are no better men than the first doctors were. They certainly are no better than the "father of medicine," Hippocrates. They stand on his shoulders. They know more and, above all, they know better. They have a different methodology. They have different tools. As a result, they do entirely different things, and do them differently.

It is a fair bet that the first teacher, that ancient Mesopotamian priest, would not recognize the schoolroom of 1999 and would not understand what goes on in it. We surely will not have "all the answers" by then; but at least we should know enough to enable children to learn and teachers to teach.

16 The Politics of Knowledge The emergence of knowledge as central to our society and as the foundation of economy and social action drastically changes the position, the meaning, and the structure of knowledge. Of all the discontinuities dealt with in this book, this is one of the sharpest and most important ones. Knowledge areas are in a state of flux. The existing faculties, departments, and disciplines will not be appropriate for long. Few are ancient to begin with, of course. There was no biochemistry a hundred years ago, no genetics, indeed hardly any biology. There was zoology and botany. It should not, therefore, come as a surprise that the distinction between organic and inorganic chemistry is no longer very meaningful. We are designing inorganic polymers in which the knowledge of the organic chemist is applied to inorganic substances such as silicones. Conversely, we are designing "organic crystals" in which inorganic chemistry as well as physics is brought to bear on organic substances. The old distinction between organic and inorganic chemistry is therefore rapidly becoming an impediment to knowledge and performance. Similarly, old dividing lines between physiology and psychology are increasingly meaningless as well as those between economics and gov-

ernment, between sociology and the behavioral sciences, among logic, mathematics, statistics, and linguistics, and so on. The most probable assumption is that every single one of the old demarcations, disciplines, and faculties is going to become obsolete and a barrier to learning as well as to understanding. The fact that we are shifting rapidly from a Cartesian view of the universe, in which the accent has been on parts and elements, to a configuration view, with the emphasis on wholes and patterns, * challenges every single dividing line between areas of study and knowledge. All institutions, as we have seen, need to be able to slough off yesterday. The university is no exception. At the least, the university needs freedom to introduce new disciplines and to combine traditional disciplines in new ways. The American, English and Japanese university systems, with their great flexibility, have a decided advantage. Or rather the absence of such flexibility is a weakness of the university systems of continental Europe, with their established ''chairs," their "titular" and "ordinary" professorships, and so on. Above all, the traditional European control of academic organization by a ministry of education is a liability. Such control tends to prohibit experimentation and to lay down the rule that no new subject can be taught anyplace, unless all universities in the country adopt itthe rule applied both in France and in Italy. This makes for bureaucratic order, which the university needs least today. The process of introducing new and phasing out old disciplines is not unfamiliar to the university. But it will have to be done much faster now than before. What is totally new, however, and in contradiction to all the modern university has ever believed, is the shift away from disciplines as the center of teaching and learning. But this was bound to happen as application became central to knowledge. Until the nineteenth century, knowledge and action had almost no contact with each other. Knowledge served the "inner man." Action was based on experience and on the skills derived therefrom. On the * On this, see my Landmarks of Tomorrow (New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1959), Chapter One.

European continent, systematic schooling had become by 1820 the prerequisite for access to a number of professions, especially the ministry, the law, and medicine; but these were legal monopolies granted to powerful guilds to restrict access and curtail competition. Until the end of the nineteenth century, the majority of lawyers and physicians in England and America came up through an apprenticeship rather than through university training. They did not differ much from their university-trained colleagues on the Continent in their capacity to perform, whether as practitioners or as scholars. Technology altogether, until the second half of the nineteenth century, was separate from science and was acquired through apprenticeship. To be sure, the first modern technical university, the École Polytechnique, was started in 1794. And from 1800 on, it was rapidly copied all over continental Europe and soon across the Atlantic in the United States. But till late in the century, the country that continued to rely on apprenticeship, that is, Great Britain, held a vast technological lead. Until the chemical and electrical industries emerged in the last quarter of the century, technological advances were made by skill-trained craftsmen and "inventors" and owed very little to science. Even in Germany engineering graduates did not become common in industry much before 1910. The search for knowledge, as well as the teaching thereof, has, therefore, traditionally been dissociated from application. Both have been organized by subject, that is, according to what appeared to be the logic of knowledge itself. The faculties and departments of the university, its degrees, its specializations, indeed the entire organization of higher learning, have been subject focused. They have been, to use the language of the experts on organization, based on "product," rather than on "market" or ''end use." Now we are increasingly organizing knowledge and the search for it around areas of application rather than around the subject areas of the disciplines. Interdisciplinary work has rapidly grown everywhere these last twenty years. The many institutes for area studies, whether of Africa, of Russia, or of the modern metropolis, are examples. They bring together men from all disciplines, ranging from economics to

psychiatry and from agronomy to art history. Increasingly such interdisciplinary work mobilizes the energies of the university and determines its direction. This is a symptom of the shift in the meaning of knowledge from an end in itself to a resource, that is, a means to some result. What used to be knowledge is becoming information. What used to be technology is becoming knowledge. Knowledge as the central energy of a modern society exists altogether in application and when it is put to work. Work, however, cannot be defined in terms of the disciplines. End results are interdisciplinary of necessity. We will, therefore, see more and more of the work of the university organized toward areas of effectiveness rather than toward a discipline. We will see more and more of it organized as the "study of China" rather than the "study of government." We do need, however, for the study of China, knowledge of government and of the political process. We do, in other words, need the discipline as a tool, a resource, a specialty. This means that pure research may derive increasingly from the need of some specific application. Research into the application, that is, for instance, into China, or into health (as opposed to research into muscle functions), will become increasingly "pure," that is, concerned with fundamental understanding, fundamental methods, and general concepts. Above all, the specialist in government who is part of an interdisciplinary group working on China will, of necessity, become a Chinese scholar as well. This will raise questions no one today understands or could even attempt to answer. Will the traditional researcherthe Forscher of the nineteenth-century German universitybecome obsolete? Will we instead base research on the questions that arise out of application? Just as the fundamental questions in government and in history come today out of work on a geographic area, the impetus to pure theory in the physical sciences comes increasingly from new instruments, such as the accelerator designed for work with nuclear particles. The specialist in a given discipline, i.e., today's scholar, may be the toolmaker of tomorrow who serves the tool users where traditionally he has been their master. The department or academic disci-

pline may tomorrow be only an administrative unit rather than an area of work, learning, teaching, and study. It may keep the personnel files of a man who is considered a historian. But his real area of work may be in an "institute" in which men from all disciplines work together on a given area in a team. But will the discipline, no matter how defined, even remain as the guardian of the personnel files? Or are we going to shift to the area studygeographic, cultural, ecological, and so onas the center of specialization? The existing disciplines might then become what in organization theory is known as "staff services," to which a man goes to find out something he does not know or to get advice. We could then anticipate that what is now the knowledge of the disciplines will tomorrow become a data bank, and the memory unit of a computer system. For this we would have to solve a great many problems in the collection, storage, and recovery of information. But we have to tackle these problems anyhow in designing information systems. Ten years ago no one thought about such developments. Today serious work on them goes on in the universities. That knowledge has become the central resource of modern society adds a third new function to the traditional tasks of the university. It adds to the functions of teaching and research that of community service, that is, the conversion of knowledge into action and results in the community. We hear a great deal today about the emphasis on research and its incompatibility with teaching and with the needs of the students. This is probably a misunderstanding. The real dilemma is caused by the growing orientation toward community service in the work of the university. The ablest men on the faculty are the ones most likely to be engaged in interdisciplinary work. The ablest are also in demand as consultantsto government and to school systems, to businesses and to hospitals, to the armed services, as well as to other faculties and departments of the university itself. The consultant ostensibly practices his specialty; but his concern is with the results of his clients. He is a part-time member of a team that is focused on end results in application rather than on the logic of any one discipline. Twenty years ago, consulting was confined to a few facultiesthe engineers

mostly, the professors of management and administration, public and private, maybe the law-school professors, and the chemists. But today almost all disciplines are drawn into consulting work. The very fact that the university is increasingly expected to mobilize its knowledge energies for application and results in the community may move us even further into restructuring teaching according to the major areas of application rather than according to the logic of the discipline. This is what the rebelling students want. The demand by student radicals for a "critical university," which is being heard in Berkeley, in Berlin, in Tokyo, is a demand for learning organized around major relevant result areas. The student sees the professor putting his knowledge to work on the problems of the metropolis; on economic development; on the conservation of the natural environment. And he asks: "Why should we students be bored stiff with information that has no relevance, no application, and no relationship to the important needs which we, as well as society, have?" The educators have an answer, of course. They say: "You have to learn the tools first before you can apply them." This sounds plausible. But does it really make sense? If the subjects we teach the students are really tools, then they are best learned in application. In fact, the only way one can learn to use a tool is by applying it to a specific and meaningful task which shows at least some results. At the December 1967 meeting of the Council of the American Association for the Advancement of Science a distinguished biologist reported that he had changed the students' boredom with the introductory course in biology into enthusiasm by building the course around the problemspollution, fish life, and so onof the lake on which the campus bordered. His experience was that this made them receptive to the most abstract theory. And yet we will still need specialists, that is, people who have learned to do one fairly small task exceedingly well. The academicians who concentrate on the graduate students in a very narrow field are not wrong; they are just one-sided. The organization of knowledge, and with it the organization of the

university, is of necessity becoming both more complex and more controversial. A simple organization is no longer possible. We will have to organize for teaching, both in contemplation of major areas of application (which are always interdisciplinary) and for specialization within a narrow area. In the former we will have to make sure that the student acquires respect for the depth of analysis needed, that is, for the contribution of the specialist. In the latter the specialist will have to learn first that he applies only one tool which, by itself, achieves little. He will then have to learn how to relate his specialty to the universe of knowledge and how to relate it in application, that is, in concert with other specialties, to end results. We do not know how to do any of these jobs todaywhich explains why today's students are so deeply disturbed. At the same time, we will have to recognize that research produces information rather than knowledge, and to organize for application of information to end results, which is what we increasingly mean by knowledge. We need not one kind of person in the university, but many. Today's insistence on the Ph.D. for any job, that is, on the man with an advanced degree in a specialized discipline in which he has supposedly done research (that is, has gathered information) is obscurantism. To be sure, we need people of this kind, but only a few of them in any area. The greatest need is for the man who can develop and teach the application to end results of knowledge and information drawn from diverse disciplines. We need further the man who can, in his own work, bring together knowledge and skills from a great many disciplines and integrate them into effective application outside the university. He is today not officially recognizedbut he is the real "star" in today's large university. Finally, we need something that higher education has never known it needs: we need managers. The several different kinds of people in the faculties have to be organized into one institution. Yet they have to be organized for a variety of functions. Each of these men will have to be able to achieve his own purposes and to obtain his own satisfaction from his work.

And then students' needs and students' desires will have to be integrated with the other university functions. This requires high managerial ability. The university may well offer the most challenging, the most difficult, but also the most needed of all managerial tasks around today. The Knowledge Base The change in the meaning and function of knowledge raises fundamental questions regarding the knowledge base of society. The first time this question came up was when Sputnik appeared in the skies in 1957. This event suddenly made it clear to the American public that building and maintaining the right knowledge base for intellectual, economic, social, and military performance is essential for national survival. It can be argued that the changes in American education would have come even without Sputnik. Certainly the rapid growth in the number of college students would have forced us to raise academic standards and to change methods of instruction in those fields where traditional approaches were signally unsuccessful, as in mathematics and the sciences. But Sputnik crystallized all these developments all at once. Above all, Sputnik taught America that knowledge is no longer a private but a public concern. Today the same lesson is being taught the Europeans by the brain drain and the technology gap, the first primarily in Great Britain, the second primarily in Continental Europe. A brain drain is a symptom of a serious disease. Even if only a small percentage of a nation's men of high knowledge prefer to work elsewhere, it should be cause for concern. Men of knowledge do not, as a rule, go elsewhere primarily because of pay. Their main reason for leaving is dissatisfaction with the effectiveness their existing environment permits them, and with the respect for knowledge and its impact in society. It may not be relevant that the brain drain in England funnels off only a tiny minority of English scientists, technologists, and physicians (the number of men who emigrate each year to the United States is only 5 to 6 per cent of the number who qualify in these

fields each year). The men who leave are the men others want, that is, the qualified, mature, and successful. Any leakage of those is a serious matter, even though the job of everyone who quits can immediately be filled by somebody who graduated yesterday. It is equally a severe indictment of military medicine in the United States that it cannot hold good meneven though quantitatively the military can obtain all the doctors it wants through the draft. The military, like the British, tend to blame this brain drain on moneyand, like the British, they are wrong; the same young doctor who leaves the military service because, as he complains, he is not being paid enough, works cheerfully for the same compensation or for less in a teaching hospital or in research. What is wrong with military medicine is that its organization, structure, and climate are not appropriate to what today's doctor considers the best practice of medicine and the best development of a medical man. The career opportunities of military medicine are in administration rather than in the practice of a major specialty or in research. But the modern physician has learned that administration is for laymen who know how to manage, and that the proper career and development of a physician is increased competence in a specialty, leadership in the treatment of patients, or research work on the advancement of medical knowledge and patient care. The standard explanation for the technology gap is also largely incorrect. It is simply not true that the United States has attained technological leadership because it spends more on research than Europe does. Most of this research lead is in defense and space work where indeed a great deal of money is being spent, but where results are meager, especially in terms of their "fall-out" benefits for the civilian economy. Only in two important areas can American technological leadership be ascribed to the high level of research spending: computers and aircraft. Here the military has, in effect, subsidized American industry. But otherwise, Europe can easily hold its own in terms of inventions. The technology gap is primarily a result of European failure to convert research results into products and to market the products successfully (a point made with great force by Servan-Schreiber's already quoted book Le Défi Américain ). The technology gap is management failure.

This is actually a more serious weakness than a shortage of research money. Money can be allocated. But the capacity to convert scientific results into economic performance, that is, the marketing and managerial capacity, money cannot buy. For its knowledge base, a modern society needs both scientific and technical people and people in the humanist, political, economic, and behavioral disciplines. Above all, it needs people capable of understanding technology while not themselves scientists or engineers. And it needs people capable of understanding the humanities, the economic and political discipline, while not themselves humanists. It needs people who can put knowledge to work rather than people who are the prisoners of discipline or method. A modern society needs both the "great man" who can create new knowledge and the "journeyman" who can convert new knowledge into everyday action. Traditionally, we have tended to set an elite concept of knowledge and education against a mass concept. We have tended to assume that one can focus on producing either a few leaders or a great many followers. But modern society needs both. One thing it therefore cannot afford in education is the "elite institution" which has a monopoly on social standing, on prestige, and on the command positions in society and economy. Oxford and Cambridge are important reasons for the English brain drain. A main reason for the technology gap is the Grande École such as the École Polytechnique or the École Normale. These elite institutions may do a magnificent job of education, but only their graduates normally get into the command positions. Only their faculties "matter." This restricts and impoverishes the whole society. There are, of course, in knowledge as in any other area, differences of ability and interests between people. And in universities, as in all other institutions, there are differences in quality. But it is incompatible with the nature of knowledge, as well as with the needs of modern society, to deny any knowledge worker the opportunity to become a master. Where he has acquired his knowledge, and where he plies it, should be irrelevant five years after he has graduated. Similarly, it is incompatible with the nature of knowledge, as well as with the demands of society, to give any knowledge institution a

monopoly position. We simply need too many people of knowledge to narrow the channel to achievement, opportunity, and advancement. The way to raise masters is to educate the largest possible number of journeymen to high demands. This has been demonstrated in the artsin the Italian Renaissance, for instance, in the great creative outburst of the sixteenth-century Momoyama period in Japan, or in the Low Countries at the time of Rembrandt and Rubens. There is no one way to identify ahead of time the people who will perform during their working life. The only true test is performance in work. And the least reliable test is performance in school. History is replete with the names of great men of outstanding intellectual accomplishment who did poorly in school. Winston Churchill is just one exampleGoethe another. History does not, as a rule, record the brilliant students who failed miserably in lifebut they are equally common. Intellectual ability is distributed like any other ability, namely on a probability basis. The more people we expose to knowledge, the more intellectual leaders will emerge. There is no conflict between mass education and quality education. We need to educate large masses of people to get the large amount of quality we need. We need to have high standards for the masses not only to get large numbers of competent journeymen and followers for the knowledge work force, but also to find and stimulate the largest number of future masters. That so much of American education before Sputnik (and still today, I am afraid) was content with mediocrity and rather smug about it, is a real weakness of our knowledge base. By contrast, one strength of American education is the resistance to any elite monopoly. To be sure, we have institutions that enjoy (deservedly or not) high standing and prestige. But we do not, fortunately, discriminate against the men who receive their training elsewhere. The engineer whose degree is from North Idaho A. and M. does not regard himself as "inferior" or as "not really an engineer." He knows that M.I.T., the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the tougher school with the more distinguished faculty. But he and his faculty in North Idaho as well as the faculty at M.I.T. know that North Idaho is an engineering school that is trying to do the same things as M.I.T.,

offers the same curriculum, and attempts to have graduates with the same knowledge, the same understanding and the same professional qualifications. And five or ten years later, nobody cares much where the fellow got his degree. What matters then is what he can do with it. While M.I.T. sees itself as the leader in technology, and indeed in a wide range of the physical sciences, it still sees as its first task the development of the competent man who can execute a task and who can make knowledge effective in performance and production. The Harvard Law School might like to be a Grande École and to claim for its graduates a preferential position. But American society has never been willing to accept this claim. The Kennedy Administration seemed to give Harvard Law School graduates the inside track. But this only made certain the dominance of "outsiders" in the next administration. If high standing in the Harvard Law School class is considered a "must" to get a good job in one of the big New York law firms, it is almost a disadvantage to the young lawyer who plans to start in the Midwest or on the West Coast. "He is a brilliant fellow," I was told fifteen years ago of Arthur Wood who, in 1967, became president of Sears Roebuck, the world's largest retail chain. "He got promoted at Sears even though he went to Harvard Law School." And this was said without irony. As a result, no American educational institution sees itself as condemned to second rank. Each knows that it can aspire to more and that it will be accepted if it achieves excellence. Good examples within the last generation are such universities as California, Stanford, and Duke, and such engineering schools as Rice and Carnegie Tech. By the same token, no American graduate feels that he is inferior and not entitled to a top position if he earns it. It is almost impossible to explain to a European that the strength of American higher education lies in this absence of schools for leaders and schools for followers. It is almost impossible to explain to a European that the engineer with a degree from North Idaho A. and M. is an engineer and not a draftsman. Yet this is the flexibility Europe needs in order to overcome the brain drain and to close the technology gap. Otherwise Europe will continue to produce far too few people who can convert the insights of the elite into results, and will therefore lose its own achievements. And the European who

knows himself competent but who is not accepted as suchbecause he is not an ''Oxbridge" man or because he did not graduate from one of the Grandes Écoles and become an Inspecteur de Finance in the government servicewill continue to emigrate where he will be used according to what he can do rather than according to what he has not done. Altogether the weakness of Europe is not the shortage of men with a first-rate scientific and technical education. Proportionately Europe, especially England and France, produces more such men than does the United States. The shortage consists of nontechnical but educated managers, especially on the lower and middle levels. What is needed is a knowledge base that encourages everyone to become knowledgeable. We need a knowledge base for a society that contains a tremendous and rapidly shifting diversity of knowledges and puts to work a tremendous diversity of knowledge applications. No one test can possibly identify today who will be leadership material twenty years later. For we do not and cannot know what will be needed twenty years hence. "Oxbridge" and "Redbrick" in England, the Grandes Écoles and the provincial universities in France, must be made equal in the opportunities for performance and in the recognition open to their graduates. At the very least they might adopt the German system which gives a monopoly position to the "university," but then makes no distinction between universities in the opportunities and careers open to their graduates. The American system has yet another strength which Europe needs and does not have. When large numbers of scientists and scholars were displaced by Hitler's persecution of the Jews, the great majority of them were eagerly absorbed into American colleges and universities. Within ten years, this gave America the ability to leap into scientific and technological leadership. Most of these men, especially the seasoned and mature ones, would probably have preferred to stay in Europe. They were at home there. Economically, it should have been easier for Europe to absorb them in view of the ravages the Depression wrought in the United States, especially in the budgets of the then still largely private American system of

higher education. But Europe did not have the flexibility. If there was already one professor of biochemistry, another one, even the leading man in the field, simply could not be hired. The American system could, and did, create jobs for good men. And once it had given a man a job, it no longer considered him a foreigner or a newcomer but put him to work. At the same time, it readily accepted whatever he had to bring and adapted itself to his ways, his approaches, his strengths. In other countries, Great Britain as well as France, hiring one of the German refugee professors was charity and a duty. In the United States it was an opportunityand this difference largely explains both brain drain and technology gap now, thirty years later. The knowledge base for the knowledge society has to be flexible, capable of accepting the new and different, receptive to innovation. It needs the diversity that is generally lacking in the European university. Indeed in education it is Europerather than the United Statesthat is narrowly, parochially conformist. But the growing insistence on the Ph.D. threatens to impose an even more stultifying uniformity on the American university. The United States also will have to remember what Sputnik taught us: that a mass system which does not apply to itself leadership standards does not even produce adequate followers. "Mass education" must be "quality education." We need to emphasize, in other words, that there is no reason whatever why high standards and excellence should not be the aim of all education, even though we extend it to the multitude. The educator has, for centuries, warned that educating more people would inevitably ''downgrade standards." The opposite has always happened. The more students we have, the more we can demand of them. There is no foundation in our experience for assuming that any restricted educational systemwhether the restriction be by inheritance, wealth, political reliability, or scholastic testproduces any different distribution of abilities than is contained in the total population. Even the most demanding schools exploit only a small fraction of the students' true abilities. What schools mean by "ability" is, as a rule, the capacity to "work harder." But, to say again what has been said before: What we need is students who "work smarter." The

need is for a system of education that accepts it as its duty to enable each student to run as far and as fast as he possibly can. The knowledge base of modern society is not compatible with institutional uniformity in higher education. Again the problem assumes different forms in the United States and in Europe. In the United States (and in Japan) there is educational diversity which, however, is in danger of disappearing, mainly for financial reasons. In Europe there is educational uniformity as a rule, with government-designed and government-imposed patterns. The United States (and also Japan) should organize financial support for the diversity of private and public institutions. Otherwise there will soon be only one uniform system of public universities representing at best a small number of types and prevented by sheer size from pioneering and experimentation. We need acceptance of the principle that higher education for every youngster is paid for out of taxes but that it is up to the young person (and his parents) to decide to which specific institutions the student (and the support) should go. This was first worked out after World War II in the G. I. Bill of Rights. The institution of learning attended by the returning veteran was paid a fixed sum whether it was private or public, subject only to its satisfying academic standards. We need to return to this principleif only to relieve the taxpayer; for every single student who goes to a private college or university relieves the cost burden on the state university. But the principle is equally necessary to preserve diversity. In Europe competition will have to be created. To build its knowledge base, Europe needs educational entrepreneurship. It needs experiment which cannot be undertaken if a ministry of education is in tight control. Europe, in other words, requires a drastic break with the pattern of government-controlled public universities that has prevailed at least since Napoleon. One possible compromise is the German system under which the universities of the various Laender, although all state universities, compete with one another. The local autonomy which de Gaulle is proposing for the French universitiesin response to the student rebellion of spring 1968may be the beginning of the reforms Europe needs. The knowledge base of our society requires major new thinking

and changes within the university. It also requires sloughing off old habits, old traditions, old prideand the adoption of new public policies. The Politics of Knowledge Diversity, flexibility, and competition will become more important in respect to knowledge the more knowledge becomes basic to society. This also will raise major political decisions on knowledge and will make it increasingly necessary to have alternatives of knowledge policy. In the past, knowledge required little money. Today it requires more and more. In fact, it requires so much that only government can supply it. This immediately raises the question of government dictation and thought control. In the United States, government today supports about two-thirds of all research work. In the rest of the free world the proportion is not much less, though the total amounts are. And, of course, in the Communist countries, government supports all research. But can we expect government to pay the piper without calling the tune? And is government control of the acquisition of knowledge compatible with a free society? Is it even in the best interest of knowledge? It is being argued that there are safeguards available against political controls. We have, for instance, created committees of scholars to administer government grants to universities. But it is doubtful that this can be effective when the need arises to ration the available money and to choose among applicants. Nor, frankly, is it wholly desirable. There has to be political control of public money. The alternative is not freedom. It is bureaucratic control by procedure or by empire building through patronageboth already to be found in the United States as well as in France or in the University Grants Council of Great Britain. The money the government contributes today no longer goes exclusively to defense or space research. It supports all kinds of research, in medicine and biology, and increasingly in the social sciences. But does a free society want government management of social science research, or must this inevitably misdirect social science toward political control of individual and society?

The academicians (like other groups before them) have been far too eager to get their hands on government money to worry about these questions. They have been far too sure that their own virtue is beyond question, and that no one will expect them to become servants because they are being paid. They have been far too confident that they, and only they, are competent to decide on the uses of public money for science and research. But even if they did a better job than human beings are likely to do when their own interests are at stake, they will not be permitted to make these decisions. Nor are they competent to make them. We face an unprecedented situation in which we will have to set priorities in the search for new knowledge. We face the need to make decisions regarding the direction of knowledge and its consequences. This is totally new, not only for the men of knowledge. We never had thought of knowledge, and the search for it, as in need of direction, let alone in need of priorities and limitations. It is becoming abundantly clear that knowledge is no more an absolute good in itself than is anything else. Knowledge may be neutral, but what we do with it is by no means neutral. Should search for knowledge that could be used only to control and manipulate mindsas is a great deal of research in the behavioral sciencesbe encouraged? Or is this a Pandora's box out of which only evil can possibly come? What about research in germ warfare? Is the old excuse that the other fellow will do it if we don't, still valid and acceptable? Even more inescapableand yet much thornieris the question of priorities. We are running into physical limitations in the search for knowledge. We have to ration our resources. It is not money that will be scarce. Money, after all, does not do research; men do. And the supply of men capable of producing new knowledge is being used up fast in all the developed countries. In the natural sciences, in medicine, in the social sciences, and in the humanities, results from research are already diminishing as human resources of marginal utility have to be employed. During the last twenty years, the research force in the pharmaceutical industry has grown twentyfold. A company that had fifty professional

researchers in 1950 is now likely to have well over a thousand. The results have not gone up twenty times; on the contrary, they have gone down. In part, this is the result of overly rapid growth and poor organization. In part, it is the result of unmanageable size. But in large part the cause is that one can hire degrees and bodies, but one cannot easily hire men. Men have to be developed, trained, and tested. This takes timeone commodity money cannot buy. The need for priorities is probably greatest in the behavioral and political sciences, in economics and politics, psychology and sociology. Talent for productive work in these areas is apparently less common and develops more slowly than in the natural sciences. Yet we have today more knowledge in some branches of the natural sciences than we can apply, while we have a tremendous need for thought, knowledge, and new ideas in government and society. Nature, which we do not create, has not changed; but our man-made environment, our communities, our societies, and our governments have been changing much faster than our grasp of them. What are the priorities in the search for knowledge? On what work should we deploy the scarce resources of trained, experienced, and tested people? And who should make the decisions? The consequences of such decisions are tremendous. There is more risk to them than we have ever faced in allocating resources to economic expectations. Yet we know much less about them than we know about economic risks and economic decisions. We have as yet no way to decide rationally between different lines of investigation and research. Even if we could assume a definite relationship between effort and results in this work, there is no rational choice between different results. Which should be given priority: research to cure a comparatively rare disease of infants, or research to improve the life expectancy and health of the elderly? Which do we need more: methods for learning foreign languages fast and easily or better methods to speed up economic and social development? Should we devote scarce resources to an improvement of defense capabilities that might make the difference between defeat or survival or should we put the same resources to work on urban transportation?

Clearly the decision will be made neither on "scientific" nor on "factual" grounds. It must be made as a choice between values and based on highly subjective appraisals of the future. It is, in other words, not a scientific decision at all but a political decision. At the same time, we need to think through the consequences of new knowledge. We may, for instance, be able to control the weather tomorrow and to convert an arid desert into well-watered farm land. This may be highly beneficial. But it may, at the same time, deprive some other region thousands of miles away of rainfall and convert it into desert land. At what stage does this consideration enter the decision to go ahead with weather research or to devote resources to something else? Should such research work even be done by one nation and financed by it, or should it be international from the beginning? Who then controls? Who then pays? These questions assume that we know enough about research and the search for knowledge to predict the results of our allocation of research resources. But no such assumption can be made so far. We hear a great deal today about the need for pure research and about the great productivity of such work. But there is no proof for this assertion. Knowledge people prefer pure research for aesthetic reasons; I share this preference. But it should not be confused with facts documenting the utility of pure research. We have none. Indeed, what little evidence we have would indicate that although highly successful pure research has high impact, most pure research has no impact or utility at all. It produces a footnote to be deleted when the next edition goes to press. Also, as C. H. Townes, the coinventor of the laser and Nobel laureate showed in a brilliant case study, * even the most experienced research directors cannot foretell which line of pure research will lead to practical applications and which will remain a purely academic curiosity. Evidence rather indicates that in knowledge work we need a balance between pure research on general theory and development work on applications. These two mutually support each other. But the evidence does not indicate which comes first. At some times, pure * Science, February 16, 1968.

research has led, at others development. This holds true apparently for all disciplines: the natural sciences, medicine, the social and political sciences. Nor does the evidence make clear what proportion between the two is needed and whenthough obviously we need tons of development for every ounce of pure research. We not only have a problem of allocation between end results, where we have to go largely by opinion and judgment; we have an equal problem of allocation of resources within any given area of work. We have, especially in the natural sciences, made great strides in formulating new knowledge needs in "systems" which then enable us to put to work people of the requisite skills and to bring together in one team people of the most diverse knowledge. Work on the atomic bomb during World War II was only the first example; the work that produced the Salk vaccine against infantile paralysis is another. We have yet to prove, however, that the systems approach works in the sociopolitical areas. Even if it does, we still face uncertainties, choices, and considerations of preference which are not within the economic calculus or within the sphere of the policy maker alone. These priority decisions arise not only on the international or national level, but within every university, every university department and faculty, every research laboratory. Yet the knowledge people, especially the scholars and scientists in our universities, rarely perceive the need to make them. Most of them still believe that government (or the university) has a duty to support any research proposal submitted by a reputable scholar. They do not understand that this is a physical, let alone a fiscal, impossibility. I took part some years ago in a study group of experienced scientists, from the natural and the social sciences, who for one year discussed the impact of scientific and technological change on national policy. A good deal of the time the distinguished panelists complained about the failure of the politicians to budget enough money for whatever area they individually were most interested in. More often they complained about the politician's ignorance of science. Only rarely did anyone talk about the responsibility of the scientist to enable the politician to function, that is, to anticipate and understand the political decisions that a new scientific or technological development might require. The only men who ever struck this note had themselves moved from being researchers or scholars

to being scientific administrators and policy makers. Their brethren in the group, the pure scientists, looked at these men as lost souls. The abilities and inclinations of the individual scholar and researcher should be an important factor in any priority decision. In the first place, researchers and scientists do a better job if they work on what they want to do rather than on what they are told to do. But also the uncertainties of the decision are so great that the greatest possible weight should be given to the hunch of an experienced man who has proven his capacity to perform. At the same time, most scholars and researchers work best if they are directed toward a goal and if their efforts are organized. It is the exceptional man who works well without such direction. The productivity of directed research was shown in the development of the atomic bomb, where most of the participants did well even though they did not even know what they were working on and only knew the specific task they were told to perform. And the Russians have proved it again and again. If need be, we could make the decisions without the scientist's informed and willing participationthough at the certain risk of making many wrong decisions. The scientist, however, cannot possibly make these decisions by himself. They are political decisions, that is, choices between values which are nonscientific and nonfactual. Political decisions have to be made by politicians. * The decision requires, therefore, a new relationship between the man of knowledge and the decision makersand so far, neither of them has given much thought to it. Altogether the need to think through and set priorities for knowledge, to direct it, to take risks, moves knowledge, its direction, its goals, and its results, increasingly into politics. We can no longer maintain the traditional line between "dirty politics" and "pure knowledge." The shift from skill to knowledge as the foundation for work and * This is brought out clearly in the one "inside story" of science-policy decisions that has yet been published, C. P. Snow's 1960 Godkin Lecture, Science and Government (New York: New American Library, 1961). Snow, in addition to being a novelist, is a scientist of note who for many years was head of scientific personnel for the British government.

performance thus means that knowledge itself is becoming increasingly "affected with the public interest." The central decisions of the knowledge society are decisions on knowledge. The central issues in such a society are knowledge issues. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; The need to set priorities for knowledge and for efforts to find new knowledge is likely to force a debate on the purpose, direction, and meaning of knowledge altogether. The question, "Is this new knowledge necessary or desirable, or is some other knowledge more desirable and more necessary?" is almost bound to lead to the next question, "Is knowledge altogether necessary or desirable?" Technology will be considered necessary and desirable for a good long time to come, even if large groups in society (e.g., the romantics of the New Left) oppose it. We will continue to work at it, whether we like it or not. Competitive pressures in the peacetime economy as well as the need for rapid economic development of the poor nations will force us to continue technological work at high speed. And so will, I am afraid, the competition in defense between nations. But knowledge? There we might well become doubtful, not only in what we say but in what we do. Once we try to differentiate between different kinds of knowledge as "good," "neutral," or ''dangerous," we may begin to wonder whether more knowledge itself is either desirable or necessary. We may become skeptical when we find that knowledge that one group of experts considers absolutely necessary is considered quite useless by another group. This is bound to happen fairly regularly once we are forced to set priorities and to argue which direction of knowledge effort is preferable. (It has already occurred with respect to high-energy particle physics which happens to be particularly expensive.) If we come to question the value of knowledge, it will be for the first time since Socrates established knowledge as the fountainhead of Western thought and the Western world-view 2400 years ago. Ever since then knowledge has been taken for granted by the Westerner. Theologians of various orthodoxies, from Byzantine Christianity to Marxism, have again and again tried to control what "true" knowledge is or should be. But few people in the West since the Greeks have denied knowledge as such or have questioned its value and

virtue. There was one attack on knowledge, that of the Franciscan mystics in the thirteenth century, but it was turned back by the great knowledge synthesis of St. Thomas Aquinas. And then his contemporary St. Bonaventure, himself a Franciscan, established our present position: All knowledge, he taught, leads to the ultimate knowledge of Truth; all knowledge is sanctified and sanctifies. Are we about to abandon this, the foundation on which the modern West has been built? We are likely to question the value of knowledge precisely because of its success. Knowledge is becoming dubious because it has become the foundation for doing and the fundamental economic resource of modern society. Socrates established knowledge as good by asserting against the Sophists that knowledge is not application, that indeed the application of knowledge to doing is a misuse of knowledge. The purpose of knowledge was knowledge, and its test wisdom. Today, however, whatever our words, our actions make clear that we consider application to be the purpose, or at least the test, of knowledge. The Socratic position no longer suffices. As a result, it is quite possible that the great new "isms" of tomorrow will be ideologies about knowledge. In tomorrow's intellectual and political philosophies knowledge may well take the central place that property, i.e., things, occupied in capitalism and Marxism. But these are speculations. All one can say today is that application has become the center of knowledge, of knowledge effort, and of the organized search for knowledge. As a result, knowledge has become the very foundation of modern economy and modern society and the very principle of social action. This is so great a change that it must have major impact on knowledge itself and must make it a central philosophical and political issue in the knowledge society.

17 Does Knowledge Have a Future? The central moral problem of the knowledge society will be the responsibility of the learned, the men of knowledge. Historically, the men of knowledge have not held power, at least not in the West. They were ornaments. If they had any role at the seats of the mighty, it was that of court jester. There was so little truth, historically, in the adage that "the pen is mightier than the sword" that it can only be called the "opium of the intellectuals." Knowledge was nice. Knowledge was a solace to the afflicted and a joy to the wealthy who could afford it. But it was not power. Indeed, up to recently, the only position for which knowledge prepared was that of servant of the mighty. Oxford and Cambridge, till the middle of the nineteenth century, trained clergymen, the European universities civil servants. The business schools in the United States, set up less than a century ago, have been preparing well-trained clerks rather than entrepreneurs. But now knowledge has power. It controls access to opportunity and advancement. Scientists and scholars are no longer merely "on tap," they are "on top." They must be listened to by the policy makers. They largely determine what policies can be considered seriously in such crucial areas as defense or economics. They are largely in charge of the formation of the young. (That the TV setnot to mention books, magazines, and the comicsis probably at

least as powerful an influence on the young, I consider a blessing no matter how questionable TV programs or the comics may be. It is surely better for the child not to be dependent on one source of stimulus and information. "Character," said Goethe, "is formed in the world's turbulence.") The learned are no longer poor. On the contrary, they are true "capitalists" in the knowledge society. Salaries have gone up fast in the schools. It is an educationally "backward" society today in which teachers, whether in primary school, secondary school, or the university, are still badly paid. Such a society suffers from brain drain or a technology gap. The man of knowledge also increasingly has earnings opportunities outside of Academia, through research grants or as a consultant. But power and wealth impose responsibility. The learned may have more knowledge than the rest of us, but learning rarely confers wisdom. It is, therefore, not too surprising that the men of knowledge do not realize that they have to acquire responsibility fast. They are no different from any other group that ever before entered into power. They too believe that they owe their position to their virtue and need no other justification than the "purity of their intentions." They too believe that anyone who questions their motives must be either fool or villain, either "anti-intellectual" or "McCarthyite." But the men of knowledge, too, will find out that power can be justified only through responsibility. The men of knowledge will find it hard to accept that the basic decisions on knowledge are political decisions rather than knowledge decisions and therefore not in their hands. They will find it even harder to swallow that we will hold them responsible for these decisions, even though they do not control them. Yet unless they accept this, they will not have much say in these decisions. The decisions have to be made. The only choice open to the men of knowledge is whether to take part in them responsibly or have them imposed by somebody else. We will also demand of the men of knowledge a high code of morality. This demand will come as an even ruder surprise to the learned. They have always prided themselves on their objectivity and on the morality of science. They tend to consider themselves reposi-

tories of virtue. But what may have been perfectly adequate as private morality as long as knowledge had no power is rather irrelevant for a group in power. Indeed the men of knowledge are today where the businessman was in the late nineteenth century with his assumption that the morality of business was his "private affair." For a group in power the facile assumption of moral righteousnessif only the heart be pure and the cause justis crass immorality. The best example is the cause célèbre that has become known as "Project Camelot." Project Camelot was the code word for a secret but worldwide research project conceived in the early sixties by a group of American anthropologists. Most of the participants came from the "liberal left," and "it was not likely that there was a single supporter of the Vietnam war among them." * Camelot proposed to produce (a) the systematic identification of the symptoms of the breakdown of a society, and (b) the identifications of actions that might forestall such a breakdown. The United States Army in 1963 accepted the Camelot proposal and provided a budget of $6 million for it. This is more than has ever been spent, I imagine, on any single social-science research project. It would have been enough to give grants to several thousand researcherswhich is a good deal more than there are anthropologists and sociologists of proven competence in the world, let alone in the United States. The work was to be done all over the world, in Latin America, the Middle East, the Far East, Europe, and Africa (indeed every place except in the American Negro ghetto where the questions it raised cried out for answers). Camelot was aborted before it got started. A junior member of the team indiscreetly mentioned it to a fellow social scientist in Chile, who leaked the story to a left-wing Chilean newspaper. As anyone could have foreseen, all hell promptly broke loose. The Chilean Chamber of Deputies conducted a formal investigation. The Chilean governmentand apparently a good many other Latin American * As a distinguished social scientist, Professor Robert A. Nisbit of the University of California, pointed out in "Project Camelot: An Autopsy," The Public Interest, Fall, 1966.

governmentsprotested formally to Washington against such gross intervention in the domestic affairs of sovereign countries. Finally, in 1965, President Johnson ordered the project stopped and issued a directive that henceforth all government-sponsored research projects outside of the United States have to be approved by the Secretary of State as compatible with American foreign policy. Two years later, in 1967, as a result of disclosures of CIA support for a variety of academic organizations, all work was stopped that, while ostensibly self-supporting academic research, was paid for secretly by the government. From now on such work will be out in the open, which will certainly stop another Camelot before it gets going. But Camelot, of course, could never have produced results. It was pure, unadulterated, six-million-dollar fraud. There are no research techniques to answer such questions as "what causes the breakdown of a society," let alone "how do we prevent it." The sponsors of this project must have known this perfectly wellevery social scientist in the world would have known it. But the sponsors also knew that the objective was broad enough to cover every conceivable social-science research and investigation anyone would want to do anywhere. Anything might, after all, be a possible "cause of the breakdown of society," from marital infidelity and sex mores to the way teen-agers buy soda pop. The sponsors argued that it is, after all, "good" to know these things. ''If the only way to get the government to support social-science research is to tell lies, what's the harm in it?" The only comment of most social scientists when Camelot was canceled (as Professor Nisbit reports) was that this was "yet another chapter in the government's discrimination against the behavioral sciences." Is such double standard still acceptable, still permissible, now that knowledge has power and income? Even if the money had been obtained in good faith, could the project have been justified? Or would any such research be interference with, and invasion of, communities and private lives? Are there no limits to what is permissible in the search for knowledge? Finally, is an army the right sponsor for such a project? What use is an army likely to make of such findings? What are the reasons an army supports it? The advocates of Camelotand they were a sub-

stantial majority, apparently, among American social scientistsanswered this question by saying: "But we knew perfectly well that there would have been no results that the army could have used." Yet the same social scientists would have gone ahead with the project, even if they had expected results. What mattered to them was the money. That such results, in the hands of an army, might lead to actions that they, as liberals, would then deplore did not, it is safe to say, much concern them. They did not even understand why the Latin American governments were so upset when the news of Camelot leaked out. Similarly the New York doctors who, in 1967, were found to have injected untested and dangerous drugs into terminal-cancer patients, without the patient's knowledge or consent, were hurt and shocked when their behavior was questioned (even though they had violated established and published canons of medical ethics as well as state laws). After all, they pointed out, they did not derive any gain from these experiments. They were only trying to obtain knowledge that might help suffering humanity. To criticize what they had done was the worst of all crimes: interference by laymen with medical research where only the researcher's peers are entitled to an opinion, and they only to an opinion on the scientific validity of his findings. The morality of knowledge should indeed be determined and controlled by peers. It should be self-controlled as it is in any self-respecting profession. But if the knowledge people refuse to tackle the problem, if they refuse to admit that a problem exists (as they still largely do), the community will inevitably tackle itjust as it punished the New York doctors rather than leave the job to the medical profession. For power always causes problems of morality. Fraud is fraud whatever the motives. And Camelot is by no means the only example of gross dishonesty and misrepresentation in application for grants from governments or foundations. Where there are large sums of money floating around, one always has to guard against the smart operator. If the knowledge community will not do this by itself, the safeguards will be imposed on it. Similarly, immorality is not to be excused simply because no one makes a profit out of it. This is only one example, and only one area, in which we have to

think through the morality of knowledge power. What about the morality of the restrictions with which the knowledge community, and especially the educators, hedge and safeguard their monopoly? Can the requirement of the Ph.D. degree be justified (except perhaps in the physical sciences)? Is there any evidence that the Ph.D. makes a man a better teacher, or even a better scholar? Or is the main reason for this requirement that it reserves access to appointments and emoluments to people who have paid their fees in time and money at the academic toll gate? Can even tenure be morally justified? We do need a safeguard against political pressure and administrative tyranny over faculties. But is the safeguard of tenure not perhaps worse than the threat of political and administrative pressures? Could we not design a way to protect the individual against these pressures and yet protect the community, the school, the student against sloth and incompetence? Why not have an advisory committee of visiting scholars who would scrutinize the performance and record of every faculty member every three to five years? We have now, in the United States, well over 2,000 colleges and universities, and some 80,000 local school systems. Surely it is not difficult for a teacher who has any competence at all to find another good job should he be dismissed without adequate cause. Our faculties are chock-full of able-bodied people who stopped working the moment they made associate or full professor and got tenure. And there are few complaints of undue pressure or persecution in industrial research laboratories where there is no tenure. As long as the men of knowledge had no power, problems such as these did not matter. Of course they existed. But they concerned only the members of the group. But with the men of knowledge in the center of power these are no longer "private matters." A group in power either takes responsibility for its morality, or it is corrupt and corrupts. It is equally urgent that the men of knowledge, the learned, take responsibility for content, standard, quality, performance, and impacts of education. The diploma curtain is not something to gloat over as so many of them do. It is their job to make it socially productive or to get rid of

it. The low productivity of education is a challenge to their responsibility. It is not enough to ask for more money and to complain when it is not immediately forthcoming. Above all, the men of knowledge have to take responsibility for the performance of education. To blame the students for their failure to learn is no longer permissible. The student who does not learn is a failure of the school. And the student who does not want to learn is the shame of the school and an indictment of school and teacher alike. It is naive to expect that the learned will accept such responsibilities voluntarily. They would be the first group in history to have done so. However, like other groups before them, the learned will soon be challenged to take responsibility. It is highly probable that the next great wave of popular criticism, indignation, and revolt in the United States will be provoked by the arrogance of the learned. The young people are already in full revolt. But the young, the students, also face a problem of responsibilityand they are even less prepared for it. The college student is highly privileged. He has almost a monopoly on the opportunities of the knowledge society. He is more highly subsidized than any privileged group has ever been before. Students are also a large and rapidly growing group. However much they may dislike it, the students today are very much a part of the "establishment." The student revolts everywhere demand a share in the power of the university, and in its government. Few of them realize though that a share in power is a share in responsibility. Fewer still ask: "What do I owe society?" It is fashionable today to call today's students "idealistic"; the students themselves use that term. But idealism by itself no more justifies power than "sincerity" makes murder into self-defense. Power can be justified only by responsible use. And if the holder of power does not use it responsibly, then he will be used by the demagogue, and for the demagogue's singularly unidealistic ends. Today's studentsand the New Left more than anyone elsetend to ask only: "What does society owe me?" There is nothing wrong with this question; indeed it needs to be asked. Only it is not the first; it is the second question. "What do I owe?" comes first. This is par-

ticularly true if the holder of privilege, power, and opportunities owes his position to the labor of othersparents, taxpayers, and so on. If we expect gratitude from students, we deserve to be disappointed. If we expect them to conform and to accept the society and the school their elders furnish them, we deprive ourselves of the specific strength of the young, their vision, energy, courage, and imagination. But responsibilitya keen sense of the moral obligation which their numbers, their privileges and their power entailthat we can, and will, ask for. This will come as quite a shock to the students. Few of them expect their protests to be taken quite that seriously. But it will be a wholesome shockif only because it will put to productive use the very real strength of today's young people. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; The greatest of the discontinuities around us is the changed position and power of knowledge. Seven thousand years ago or more, man discovered skills. There were great artists before this discovery. There have never been painters greater than those prehistoric men who left behind the cave paintings in France and Spain or the rock paintings in the Sahara. But there were no skilled craftsmen in those days. Skill supplied the tools to make average people without towering genius capable of competent, predictable performance, and capable of advancing from generation to generation by organized systematic apprenticeship. Skill created the division of labor and therefore made possible economic performance. By the year 2000 B.C. or so, our ancestors in the irrigation civilizations of the Eastern Mediterranean had developed every single one of the basic social, political, and economic institutions of society, every single one of our occupations, and most of the tools man had at his disposal until two hundred years ago. The discovery of skill created civilization. Now we are about to make another major move. We are beginning to apply knowledge to work. We are not yet much further ahead, I submit, than were those remote ancestors of ours who first made hunting a specialized occupation with its own special tools, and with a skill to be learned in long arduous apprenticeship. But even the first faltering steps we have taken have shown that applying knowledge to

work is a big idea, and an exciting one. Its potential may be as great as was the potential of skill when first discovered. The development may take as long. But the impacts already are very greatand the changes they imply are tremendous, indeed. As great and as profound as any of these impacts of knowledge are the impacts on knowledge. Above all the shift to knowledge as the foundation of work and performance imposes responsibility on the man of knowledge. How he accepts this responsibility and how he discharges it will largely determine the future of knowledge. It may even determine whether knowledge has a future.

CONCLUSION This book, despite its length, reports only one dimension of our experience and existence: the social one. It probes for the discontinuities in technology and economy, in society, politics, and education. It pays, at most, passing attention to science and the arts, and virtually none to the emotional and spiritual life of man. It is, therefore, a superficial book. The social is the surface of human existence, the skin, so to speak. What has happened, and what it means in tasks and opportunities ahead, is the book's concern. It looks for the cutting edges of the future. It looks for what is clearly visible, but is not yet being perceived. Disciplined observation rather than powers of prophecy is what its author would like to claim for himself. But precisely because the events reported are accomplished facts, they are unlikely to disappear. The tasks will remain and will become increasingly urgent. While the discontinuities described here do not predict what will happen, they do indicate, with high probability, what we will have to concern ourselves with. They also indicate what is not likely to happen. If there is substance to this report on our changing society, it is unlikely that the trends of the last sixty years will dominate the rest of this century, as most predictions about the year 2000 assume. Instead we can expect different and new trends to emerge, and different and new concerns to claim our attention.

If this report is valid, the expectations of the New Left are equally improbable. We will not see technology and economics become irrelevant or secondary. We will not see concern with production become obsolete. Rather we can expect a rapidly changing technology and a new concern with production and productivity. Nor are we likely to see a society that repudiates organizations. Rather the concern will be with making organization fully effective as a major instrument and tool of man and as a central organ of human society. &lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; Self-limitation to the social dimension and to reporting on events that, while not yet perceived, are still accomplished facts, restricts both the timespan with which this book deals and its scope. Surely the arts rather than social events are the true harbinger of tomorrow. And no matter how perceptive a reporter is, and how keenly he analyzes what has already happened, he is no more capable than the next man of predicting great events of tomorrow, whether catastrophes or blessings, or the great men, whether heroes or villains. Yet the future that the artist's vision foretells we only recognize after it has become fact, and yesterday. Who, for instance, a hundred years ago, would have been able to show that the Impressionists in France, rather than the pre-Raphaelites in England, prefigured tomorrow? Who would have been able to show that Louis Sullivan's first tall buildings in Chicago foreshadowed the architecture of the twentieth century rather than that most admired Victorian monument, the St. Pancras Railway Station in London? And would even knowledge of the right artistic trend enable one to divine the society or the environment the trend embodies in advance? Like all oracles, the artist's vision can only be understood after the forecasted event. Similarly the great events and the great men can be predicted only after they have occurred. Whether history has logic and laws has been debated for thousands of years. But neither, all our experience proves, can be foreseen. They only come into the focus of hindsight. In prospect the logic and laws of history are possibilities only, all equally probable and equally improbable. The discontinuities are, however, certainties precisely because they are on the surface, precisely because they have already happened.

&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt;&lt;&gt; No one needs to be told that our age is an age of infinite peril. No one needs to be told that the central question we face with respect to man's future is not what it shall be, but whether it shall be. If we do not survive, the concerns of this book will, of course, perish with us. But if we do survive, its concerns will become our tasks. They are humdrum tasks, tasks of patching the fabric of civilization rather than of designing a new garment for a New Adam. They are tasks of today, and not tasks for the year 2000. But they are the tasks to which we have to address ourselves to deserve tomorrow.

INDEX A Adams, Henry, 106, 135 Addams, Jane, 120, 135 ADELA, 128 adolescence, education and see also education; youth, 32528 advertising, 16364 affluent society, 7880, 282 Agricultural Production and Economic Development of Japan 18731922 (Nakamura), 111n. agriculture see also specific country, 1217, 2223 contract growing, 13132 economic development, 10913, 13032 economic growth, 5, 2223 exports, 110, 111 extension service, 27071 free trade, 11213 government policies, 227, 22829, 27071 industrialization, 1617, 111 isolation, 11011, 112 labor force, urbanization, 1317, 21 land-grant colleges, 270 living standards, 27071, 28182 marginal, 13, 15, 17 multinational corporations, 130 productivity, 9, 1217, 10708, 113, 117 differentials, 11112 research, 27071 land-grant colleges, 270 private enterprise, 18182 technology, 56, 14, 11112, 27071 working lifespan, 282 aid programs see developing countries; foreign aid air pollution, 2122, 203 Alliance for Progress, 129 aluminum, 8, 18, 30, 62 American Capitalism (Galbraith), 249n. American colonies, 8182 "Americanization" of foreign countries, 7879 Antitrust Division, 221 apartment buildings, 3637 Appalachia, 118 Argentina, 120 "bread basket," nineteenth century, 110 food output per capita, 107 multinational corporation, 9798 armed servicessee military art, forecasts and hindsight, 382 Asia see specific country Asian Drama (Myrdal), 103n., 133 aspirin, 8 atomic research, 30, 51, 368, 369 Austin, John, 251

Australia, 5, 110 Austria, 10910, 315n. government agency growth, 27576 industrialization, 5 steelmaking, 19 Austro-Hungary, 275 automation, 297, 298 automobile industry see also specific countries, 12, 21, 2023 air pollution, 2122 developing countries, 21, 2223 Edsel (Ford), 163, 237 employment, 298 experience-based, 40 importance, 21, 2223 labor mobility and, 21 Model T (Ford), 6, 237 productivity and technology, 5, 8 safety engineering, 203, 204 status symbol, auto as, 22 traffic congestion problems, 2122 trucking, 67, 22 unions, 304, 305 Volkswagen, 7778 aviation industry, 67, 8 composite materials, 3031 employment, 267 experience-based, 40 Sweden, 50 B balance of payments, 99, 15355 Balkan Wars, 222 Bancor, 87 banks see also monetary system central, and money policy, 88, 90 competitive, 90 industrial development (venture), 50, 12628 merchant bankers, 91 World Bank, 127, 128, 239 Becket, Thomas à, 257 behavioral sciences, 365, 366 Bell Laboratories, 49, 55, 61 Bell Telephone System, 6 Bessemer steel process, 8, 18 Bill of Rights, 274 Blue Cross, 180 Bodin, 171 Boer Republics, 222 Bonaventure, St., 371 Boston University, 180 Brahe, Tycho, 14142 brain drain, 265, 35657 Brazil agriculture, 132 automobile industry, 21 economic structure and growth, 5, 107, 120, 136 revolution, 96 Bretton Woods Conference, 87 Britain see Great Britain Brown, Lester R., 108 Bryan, William Jennings, 89 building materials, 18 Bunge &amp; Born, 97 businesses see also corporations; industries; organizations; specific names, subjects, 4243 reprivatization, 23640 businessmen see entrepreneurs C Cali, Colombia, 12930 California Institute of Technology, 180 Camelot, Project, 37476 Canada, 5 ''American domination," 98 "bread basket," nineteenth century, 110 education, 279, 312 government agencies, 189, 194 capital and capital investment banking, 50, 12628 economic development, 11316 exports, 110, 11415, 154 "factors of production," 15051 foreign, 11316 restrictions, 15455 government direction, 69 "lack," 128 local, 12728 mobility, 5859 multinational corporations, 114, 15354 productivity economic growth, 5859 innovation, 4445 profits and risk, 14548 railroads, 11011 subsidiaries, 9899 taxation, 6365

"cargo cults," 79 Carnegie Corporation, 174 carpet industry, 5354 caste system, 27273 Castro, 112, 140 Catholic Church, 244, 248, 293 Cauca Valley (Colombia), 12950 celestial mechanics, 14142 ceramics, 29 Champion, George, 205 charitable organizations, 174 Chase Manhattan Bank, 205 chemical industries, 6, 8 carpet industry, 5354 innovative divisions, 55 innovative marketing, 5354 international subsidiaries, 92 knowledge-based, 40 research laboratories, 49 children see education; youth Chile, 37475 China, ancient, 29, 102, 103 China, Communist (mainland) climate, 103 Cultural Revolution, 244 economic policy, 140 Maoism, 9, 1067, 112, 140, 244 rice production, 112 steel industry, 20 China, non-Communist, 72, 97, 117, 121 climate, 103 economic growth, capacity for, 104 education, 317 student unrest, 243, 244 Churchill, Winston, 221, 359 CIA, 375 cities employment, shift to, 1317 government, 21819 Grosstadt, 3435, 37 megalopolis, 3337, 179 planning, 3437 shopping centers, 37 streets and avenues, 3637 transportation automobiles, 2122 mass, 3537 civil service, 189, 231 Civil War, 82, 135 class war, 1023, 106, 120 climate and poverty, 103 coal industry, 11, 18, 69 "Coca-colonization" of foreign countries, 78 Colbert, 138 "cold war," 226 colleges and universities see also education; specific names, countries, 235 curricula and disciplines, 349ff. degrees, importance of, 33133, 35762 diversity of, 363 Grandes Écoles, 35762 faculty community service, 35354 interdisciplinary activities, 35354, 355 managers, 355 refugees, impact of, 36162 research, 35253 specialists, 354 financial support, 363, 364 G.I. Bill of Rights, 324, 363 growth, 173, 174 land-grant, 270 management, 189 management studies, 12930 mass education, 358ff. medieval and Renaissance, 313 military, relationship to, 177, 179 multinational, 240 power-elite, 25051 private vs. public, 363 research, 173, 179, 35254, 355 government-supported, 36465 responsibility and authority, 201, 2034, 207 retirement, 291 student unrest and rebellion, 201, 207, 24347, 31213, 354, 37879 worldwide, 240 Colombia, 107, 120, 12930, 335 colonial economy, American, 8182 "colonialism," 104, 314 Columbia University, 180 commodities vs. products, 164

Common Market see European Common Market communications, world economy and, 7881 Communications Satellite Corp. (COMSAT), 239 Communism see also Marxism, specific country, 106, 251 Communist nations see also China, Communist; Russia economic policies, 134, 165 economic theories, 13940, 144, 14647 government-organization interdependence, 184, 185, 20910 institutions, 252 monolithic government, 241 reprivatization, 235 research, 364 trade with, regulation, 98 composite materials, 3031 computers, 7, 2428, 51, 61 depersonalization and, 259 development, 38 economic analysis, 141, 256 education, 2627 notation and programming, 25 privacy, 256 programmers, 27, 40, 266 purpose of use, 259 time-sharing, 26 Concept of the Corporation (Drucker), 175n., 210n. concrete, 18, 29, 31 Congo, 122, 224 consumers "Americanization" of foreign, 7879 marketing and, 5254, 2024 container industry, 18, 32, 33 Continuity, Age of, 9 cooperatives, 235, 236 Corn Laws, English, 113 Corn Products Co., 94, 132 corporations see also organizations decentralization, 233 growth, 17374 innovative divisions, 5457 international trade, 9192 multinational, 91101 agriculture, 130 balance of payments, 99, 15354 capital investment, 114 fear of, 9798, 15354 laws governing, 98, 99, 100 management, 9294, 130 profitability, 9899 reprivatization, 23940 social and economic development, 23940 reprivatization, 23640 size, 17374 subsidiaries, 92, 9394 taxation, 6364, 130 cost effectiveness concept, 191 costs economic, 7273 public accounts, 18384, 229, 23132 cotton industry, 12, 69 craft unions see also unions, 5961, 3035 crafts, 3025 credit fixed expansion, economic theory of, 167 Marx and classical interpretation, 83 world economy, 84, 88 Crédit Mobilier, 126 crime, streets and, 36 Cuba, 112, 122, 140 cultures, traditional, development and, 13234 Czechoslovakia, 5, 218, 222, 224, 226 D Dai-Ichi Bank, 126 data processing see also computers; information industry, 47 David, J. Ben, 51n. defense industries, 177, 17980, 18283 de Gaulle, Charles, 15, 78, 89, 95, 98, 113, 153, 197, 312, 303 demand consumer, 7880 creating, and innovative marketing, 5254 world economy, 8183 depressed areas, 118, 22829

depressions, 138, 156 Depression (19291939), 84, 87, 156, 213, 227, 246, 61 monetary system failure, 84 Descartes, 248, 350 Detroit race riots, 306 developing countries see specific country, subject agriculture, 2223, 13132 productivity, 1078, 11112 aid programs, 11621, 122, 214 evaluation of results, 109 intergovernmental, 12123 military, 121 Point Four Program, 107, 108, 109 priorities, 11819, 120, 121 surplus-food, 117 before and since World War I, 105 brain drain, 265 capital investment, 11316 climate, 103 consumer demands for luxuries and conveniences, 7880 entrepreneurs, 9697 food production, 1078, 11213, 114 nineteenth century, 110 government, 225 income, per capita, 108 industries, 11, 2223, 1001 automobile, 21, 2223 foreign investment, 11415 steel, 20, 1001, 111 living standards see living standards multinational corporations, 9394, 97, 1001 population explosion, 9, 107, 281 "bread baskets" and market creation, 108 poverty see poverty productivity differentials, 11112 race and poverty, 1034 value choices, 21, 7880 Development Advisory Service, 130 Discontinuity, Age of, xixiii, 10 distribution, 70 multinational companies, 91ff. dollar as key currency, 8687 domestic economy as model, 153, 156 Douglas Co., 237 Drucker, Peter F., 38n., 175n., 209n., 210n., 258n., 350n. drug industry see pharmaceutical industry du Pont Co., 55 dyes, synthetic, 8 E Eastman Kodak, 307 École Polytechnique, 351, 358 economic development see also developing countries agriculture, 10913, 13032 aid programs, 10721 capital, 11316, 124, 125, 12628 government ownership, 134 human resources, 124, 12520, 12833 intergovernmental programs, 12123 motivation, 109, 11617, 12223 Point Four Program, 107, 108, 109 traditional cultures, 13234 transitional periods, 13436 economic growth see also specific subjects capital, mobility of, 5859 entrepreneurs, 145 government, effective, 225 information explosion, 7881 innovation, 145 men, mobility of, 58, 5961 monetary system, 8384 projections hindsight and, 382 new industries, 1141 pre-World War I industries, 410 profit and risk, 14548 savings, 144 technological development, 7072 economic mechanics, 141 economics commodities vs. products, 164 Communist, 13940, 144, 14647 data availability, 14142 economy, management of, 13839 equilibrium theory, 14348, 152 "factors of production," 15052 growth as focus, 167 input-output model, 14344 knowledge and productivity, 15052

economics (Continued) macroeconomy, 153, 16062 microeconomy, 160, 16263 motivation and conflict, 21517 new, 13742, 16568 price vs. cost, 16465 statistical approach, 160 technology, neglect of, 14850 Edison, 8, 24, 40, 42, 52 education see also colleges and universities; knowledge; knowledge workers; specific country, subject adolescence, 32528 "adult," 321 age employability, 32930 learning, 32123 boredom and learning, 336, 337 business in, 18081, 205 communication in, 33637 computers, 2627 continuing vs. extended, 32025 curriculum, 315ff. degrees, importance, 33133, 35762, 377 dropouts, 32930 employment, 27274, 27879, 28385, 32933 expenditures, 31112, 334 ghetto children, 337 high schools, 315 institutional diversity, 363 integration, 274 investment and need, 335 junior high schools, 31415 Latin teaching, 315 learning, 336, 33948 level, 266 life span, 28384 living standards, 284 managerial see also knowledge; knowledge workers, 197 mass, 358ff. motivation, 336 perception and emotion, 319 productivity, 33435, 336 purpose, 31314, 320 resistance to, 7879, 314 right to, 274 second careers, 29295 social impacts, 32533 teachers see teachers and teaching television, 33637 trades and vocational, 268, 3008, 316, 31718 veterans, 324, 363 Effective Executive, The (Drucker), 288 Egyptians, ancient, 28, 185, 268 Eisenhower, Dwight, 177 electrical industry, 6, 8, 12, 2425 air pollution, 203 experience-based, 40 electronics industry see also television, 6, 8 multinational corporations, 1001 international subsidiaries, 92 elevators (building), 36 employment and employees see also labor; management; specific industries agriculture, 12ff. automation, 297, 298 benefits as restrictions, 254 civil service, 189, 231 education, 27274, 27879, 28385, 32933 fluctuations, 29798 individual freedom, 25155 knowledge industries see also knowledge workers, 2428, 264ff. knowledge workers see knowledge workers management level, 197 mobility, 58, 5961, 25354 motivations, 28182, 28889 nationals, in subsidiary management, 9394 Negroes, 285, 297, 299, 30610, 330 older people, 29396 organizations, 186, 197, 20811 participation in policymaking, 20811 retirement, 253, 280, 29096 second careers, 29295

employment (Continued) security, 25255 lifetime employment, 68, 253, 304, 305 skilled and semi-skilled, 264, 268, 28788 social responsibility, 202 subsistence, 104 technological change, 60, 3001 teen-age, 32930 training, 268, 3008 managerial, 197 unions see unions unskilled, 268, 298ff. upgrading, 268, 276, 279, 296310 urban, shift to, 1317 working, life span, 27884, 29096 Engles, Friedrich, 106 engineers, 272, 273 England see Great Britain entertainment, 78 entrepreneurs agriculture, 131 economic growth, 145 developing countries, 9697 inventors as, 42 profit/talent theories, 12326 Escape from Freedom (Fromm), 216, 247 Europe see also specific country, subject "American domination," 15354 economic structure and growth, 4ff. education, 315, 36062, 363 international trade, 157 multinational corporations, 9395 population explosion, nineteenth century, 110 steel industry, location, 19 European Common Market, 78, 82, 9496, 113 exports agricultural, 110, 111 industrial, 6869, 16162 investments, 110, 11415, 154 subsidiaries, investment in, 9899 extension service, 27071 extractive industries, foreign investment, 11415 F Fabians, 106, 213 famine relief, 107, 117 Fascism, 216 Fayol, 199 Federal Reserve, 82, 8990, 161 Ferranti affair, 184 food-processing industry, 100 food supplies agriculture and see also agriculture, 9, 17, 1078, 113, 117 developing nations, 1078, 11213, 114 nineteenth century, 110 ocean resources, 28 Ford, Henry, 6, 48, 185, 237 Ford Foundation, 174 Ford Motor Co., 61, 9192, 163, 185, 203, 204 foreign aid see also specific country, subject, 11621, 122, 214 economic development, 10913 evaluation of results, 109 military, 121 Point Four program, 107, 108, 109 Formosa, 97, 104, 117 France agriculture, 13, 15, 110 brain drain to, 265 education, 312, 315 European Common Market, 95 immigration into, 13 institutional structure, and development, 136 international trade, 68 inventions, postwar, 51 labor force, urbanization, 13 monetary system, 8788, 89 strikes, 244, 250 universities, 244, 312, 350, 362, 363, 364 Friedman, Milton, 167 fringe benefits, 254 Fromm, Erich, 216, 247 Fundamental Research and Government Policy (David), 51n. G Galbraith, John Kenneth, 23, 175n., 249 Galileo, 141

General Electric Co., 6 city planning, 181 education, expansion into, 181 nuclear power, 6162 research laboratories, 49 General Motors, 61 management structure, 9293 Germany agriculture, 13, 110 automobile industry, unions, 305 craft unions, 6061, 304 depressed areas, 22829 economic structure and growth, 5, 89, 23 education, 315 European Common Market, 95 Health Insurance, 215 immigration into, 13 industrial unions, 61, 3045 international trade, 68 inventions, postwar, 51 labor urbanization, 13 Nazism, 216, 217, 245 Osthilfe, 229 research laboratories, 49 Revisionists, 106 Social Democrats, 213 steel industry, 17, 18 trucking, 22 universities, 23536, 243, 351, 363 welfare policies, 68 youth movement, 245 ghettos, 123, 239, 306, 308 children of, 337 training programs, 132, 301 wealth, 123 G.I. Bill of Rights, 324, 363 glass, 18, 29 "Gnomes of Zurich," 88 Goethe, 326, 359, 373 gold as monetary base, 8485, 89, 90 "Gold Bugs," 89 Gompers, 106 go no-go gauges, 270 Gottesmann, Jean, 33n. government, 21242 administration and bureaucracy, 21925, 22933 agencies, 25051, 256, 257 agriculture, 227, 22829 extension services, 27071 land-grant colleges, 270 research, 181 attitudes toward, 212ff. cities, 21819 costs accounts and audits, 18384, 229, 23132 profit motive, 230 decentralization, 23334 economic policy, theory, 162ff. evaluation procedures, 232 freedom and pluralism, 25052 functions, private organizations, 17985, 21517 growth, 172, 175 industries development planning, 6670 nationalization, 69, 21318, 251 reprivatization, 23640 strikes, 25051 international affairs, 22225 job training, 300 justice and law, 25052, 257 management, 18889, 233 marketing, 6670 military services and functions see Military monolithic, 241 organizations, interdependence, 17785 ownership, 134, 20910, 216, 235 President, powers of, 22021 purposes, 225, 233 regulations Communist countries, trade with, 98 subsidiaries, 98 reprivatization, 23436, 241 research support, 62, 179, 181, 36465 resistance to change, 22627, 232 retirement, 291 sovereignties, 22224 superpowers, 175, 22324 taxation see taxation union dependency on, 178 welfare policies, 68, 21415, 21820, 22729

Grace (W. R.) &amp; Co., 94, 98 Grandes Écoles, 35762 Great Britain agriculture, 13, 17, 113 brain drain to and from, 265, 35657 capital, mobility, 59 Civil Service, 189 conservatism, 6769, 159 Corn Laws, 113 craft unions, 5961, 304 depressed areas, 118, 22829 domestic economy, emphasis on, 6768 economic structure and growth, 4, 5, 6768, 71 education see also universities, 265, 266, 273, 312, 314, 315, 351 Elizabethan living standards, 102, 103 European Common Market, 78, 95, 113 exports, 69, 161 Fabians, 106, 213 food production, 113 government, 213 organizations, interdependence, 18485 Health Service, 185, 21415 industries nationalization, 69, 216, 218 old vs. new, 6869, 16162 reprivatization, 239 steel, 17, 69, 216 international trade, 68, 157, 159 inventions, postwar, 51 labor shortage, 13 management, 189 "Marconi Affair," 6 marketing, technology and, 5152, 71 monetary system, 8788 multinational corporations, 96 subsidiaries, 65 taxation, 6465 trade fairs and exhibitions, 69 trucking, 2122 universities see also education, 273, 350, 358, 360, 361, 364 University Grants Council, 364 welfare policies, 68, 185, 21415 Great Transformation, The (Polanyi), 118n. Greece, emigration, 13 Greeks, ancient, 28, 39 Grosstadt, 34ff. Gruenderjahre, 42n. H Hamilton, Ian, 199 Harlem, 123 Harvard Law School, 360 Harvard University, 130, 180 Haussmann, 34, 36 health services, 180, 185, 21415 Hegel, 248 Hertz, Heinrich, 46 Herzberg, Frederick, 288 high-voltage research, 4546, 50 Hitotsubashi, 125 Hobbes, 171 Holland see Netherlands Holmes, Justice, 269 Holt, John, 317n. Hong Kong, 72, 104 hospitals, 17273, 181, 191, 19394, 196, 205, 235, 237 Great Britain, 185 Veterans', 180, 196 housing, 180, 181, 205 How Children Fail (Holt), 317n. human resources see also labor; knowledge workers development, 124, 12526, 12833 lifespan and, 27986 Hungary, 24, 110, 226 I IBM computers, 7, 47, 61 education, expansion into, 181 multinational management, 94 multinational research centers, 94 immigration, labor force and, 13 India caste system, 27273 climate, 103 culture, and economic development, 133, 136 economic structure and growth, 22, 107

India (Continued) education, 244, 314, 335 entrepreneurs, 96, 133 food output, 108 industries, 22 pharmaceutical, 79 steel, 20 international trade, 157 multinational corporations, 9394 rice production, 112 individuals see also youth; specific subject freedom and pluralism, 24751, 25859 knowledge and occupational mobility, 272ff. opportunity and organizations, 25860 philosophic values, 24849 privacy, right to, 25556 responsibility and decision, 21617, 24749, 25859 security, employment, 25254 Indonesia, 112, 120, 130, 244, 336 industrial engineer, 272 industrialization, 4ff. industrialized countries see specific country, subject Industrial Revolution, 1112, 18, 255 industries see also specific company, country, field, subject competitiveness, 7273 defense, 177, 17980, 18283 developing countries, 11, 2223, 72 foreign investment, 11415 diversification, 33 economic growth, 4ff., 11ff., 2223 employment see employment entrepreneurs see entrepreneurs exports, 6869, 16162 extractive, foreign investment, 11415 Grosstadt, 3435 Industrial Revolution, 1112, 18 innovative organizations, 5457 investment/productivity ratio and innovation, 4445 knowledge-based, 3841, 7273, 264 labor-intensive, 72 mature, 1112, 2324 "modern" aging, 1223 competitiveness, 72 multinational corporations, 9101, 130, 23940 nationalization, 69, 21318 strikes, 25051 new, 1112, 2441, 72 pre-World War I, 410 research and development, 4849 government supported, 62, 18 size and innovation, 62 subsidies, 6566 information vs. knowledge, 269 knowledge industries see also knowledge; knowledge workers, 263ff. spread of living standards, 7881, 1023 world economy, 7880 information industry see also knowledge economy; knowledge workers, 2428 computers see computers employment, 2728, 40, 26667 institutions see also organization; specific subject pluralism, 17187 reprivatization, 23441 traditional, and economic growth, 13236 insurance, health and life, 180 international economy see also international trade; world economy; specific subject, 6773, 15659 crises of, 56 world economy, shift to, 8183 International Finance Corporation, 127 International Monetary Fund, 9091, 239 international trade see also corporations, multinational; specific countries capital investments, 11316 with Communist countries, 98 competitive, 157, 159 complementary, 157, 15859 costs, comparative, 158, 159

international trade (Continued) dependence on, 68 differential advantage, 15657 "factors of production," 15658 government manipulation, 6668 management, 9294 monetary system inadequacy, 84 patents and licenses, 4950, 71 protective tariffs, 6566 subsidiaries, 92 Invention and Economic Growth (Schmookler), 51n. inventions see also specific fields, inventors experience-based, 40 knowledge-based, 40, 269 patent law, 183 pre-World War I, 8, 42 technology gaps, 51 investments see capital and capital investments Iran, 107, 120 iron and steel industry see steel industry Israel, 172, 266 Italy, 10910 depressed areas, 118 Fascism, 216 industrialization, 5, 13 labor force and productivity, 13, 1516 universities, 243, 244, 350 ITEK, 180 Iwasaki, Yataro, 12326, 127, 133 J Jacobsson, Per, 90 James, Henry, 106 Japan agriculture, 13, 15, 17, 112 financing national development, 111 capital, mobility, 59 craft unions, 60, 304 economic structure and growth, 4, 5, 6770, 72, 104, 12327 education, 266, 314, 329, 345, 363 employment lifetime, 68, 253, 304, 305 mobility, 253 retirement, 253, 280 training, 304 urbanization, 13 entrepreneurs, 12326 exports old vs. new industries, 69 silk, 111 government enterprises, 134 industries automobile, 20, 22 labor intensive, 72 new vs. old, 6869 steel, 6, 17 international trade, 6770 Meiji Period, 314 modernization and development, financing, 111 Momoyama Period, 359 multinational corporations, 93, 94, 99100 population explosion and markets, 110 productivity, urbanization, 14 race war, 105 Sokka Gakai, 329 technology, importation, 50, 69 television, 78 trade fairs and exhibitions, 69 universities, 350, 363 welfare, 68 Westernization, 133 Jay, Antony, 188n. Job Corps, 180 Johnson, Lyndon, 195, 218, 232, 375 justice see also laws, 257 K Kaiser Wilhelm Institutes, 49 Kennedy, John F., 65, 87, 108, 138, 218, 221, 360 Kennedy, Robert, 180 Kepler, 14142 key-currency concept, 8687 Keynes, Lord, and Keynesian economics, 13738, 141, 153, 167 equilibrium theory, revision of, 145 key-currency concept (Bancor), 87 money and credit, role of, 83 Khrushchev, 77, 221 Kierkegaard, 248

knowledge see also technology ability and upgrading, 35859, 36263 base of society, 356, 35859, 36364 employment, 2667 disciplines, new, 349ff. future, 37280 vs. information, 269 mobility, 158 morality, 373ff. organizations based on, 18587 power, 37273, 37980 priorities, 36570 productivity, 15052, 158, 166, 198, 264, 266 and skills, 26768 technology based on, 3841, 46, 26566 knowledge economy see also knowledge; knowledge workers; specific subject, 2428, 26386 knowledge workers, 26469, 27278, 35859 brain drain, 265, 35657 as ''capitalists," 276 career choices, 272ff. employment, 2728, 40, 26667, 27578 management, 198, 277, 28790 mobility, 25354, 27274 motivation, 288, 289 Negroes, 30810 retirement, 29096 second careers, 29295 working lifespan, 284, 29096 Korea, 117 Korean War, 297, 306 Krupp, 89 Kuznets, Simon, 151 L labor see also employment; specific subject agricultural, as source, 1317 availability life expectancy, 280 living standards, 13 working lifespan, 28082 leadership, working class, 106 management conflict, 217, 27172, 307 mobility, 21, 58, 5961, 15758, 301 benefits as restrictions, 254 knowledge workers, 25354 race conflicts, 306, 307 social status, 298, 299300 strikers, 217, 25051 unions see unions urbanization, 1317 automobile and, 21 value theories, 140, 15051, 157 women, 8, 282 Labor Theory of Value, 140 laissez faire, 138 land-grant colleges, 270 Landmarks of Tomorrow (Drucker), 38n., 350n. Latin America see also South America; specific countries ADELA enterprises, 128 climate, 103 economic growth, 104, 107 economic integration, 96 food output per capita, 107 foreign investments, 115 management associations, 12930 military aid, 121 multinational corporations, 94, 96, 9798 steel industry, 17, 20 universities, 240 urban areas, 107 Latin American Common Market, 96 laws, 257 multinational corporations, 98, 99, 100 patent, 189 pluralism, 25152 learning see also education; teachers and teaching principles of, 33944 programs, 34042, 34445 Le Défi Américain (The American Challenge) (Servan-Schreiber), 95, 265, 357 Liberia, 130 licenses, 49, 71 life expectancy, 27980 lifespan, working, 27884, 29096

light bulbs and fixtures, 8, 24, 52, 54 Litton, 180, 181 living standards see also poverty; specific subject, 50 agriculture, 27071, 28182 dependents, 28182 education, 284 imbalances untenable, 1045 information explosion and, 7880, 1034 labor availability, 13 leisure, 1045 lifespan, 27896 rising, and political stability, 1067 technology, economic growth and, 72 women, working, 282 Locke, 171, 189 London University, 240 luxuries, demand for, 7880 M Machiavelli, 188, 200 machine tool industry, 12 Machlup, Fritz, 263n. macroeconomy, 153, 1662 Malaya, 335 management, 42, 188201 associations, 12930 executive effectiveness, 197, 199200 innovative organization, 5457 international companies, 92, 9394 international trade, 9294 knowledge workers, 198, 277, 28790 labor conflict, 217, 27172, 307 multinational corporations, 9294, 130 nationals in, 9394 nonbusiness, 18889 power-elite, 24950 productivity, 27172 responsibility and authority, 201, 20711 selection and training, 197 scientific, 120, 27172, 285, 287 tenure, 197 Management &amp; Machiavelli (Jay), 188, 208 Mao Tse-tung, 9, 1067, 112, 140, 244 Marconi Affair, 6 marketing advertising, 16364 consumers and, 52 demand, creation of, 5254 European Common Market, 78 government manipulation, 6670 innovative, 4550, 5254 technology and, 5154 Marxism, 120, 134 Labor Theory of Value, 140, 150 leadership, working class, 1067 money and credit, theory of, 83 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 180, 35960 Masters, The (Snow), 188, 216 materials, technology of see also specific materials, 2933 mathematicians, 273 Max Planck Institutes, 49 McLuhan, Marshall, 80, 337 McNamara, Robert, 191, 232, 257 Medicare and Medicaid, 180, 215 medicine see also hospitals, 184 lifespan, 28283 medicare and medicaid, 180, 215 military, brain drain, 357 research, 181, 36566 second career, 29394 megalopolis see also cities, 3337, 179 Megamachines, 185 Melchett, Lord, 216 Menninger Foundation, 173 mercantilism, 138 merchant bankers, 91 Mexico, 5, 107, 122, 336 microeconomy, 160, 16263 Migration, Age of, 9 military brain drain, 357 Canada, unification, 189 cost/effectiveness concept, 191 defense industries, 107, 17980 draft, 226 job training, 303 management, 189 organizations, interdependence, 177 power-elite, 25051 retirement, 291, 294, 295 university relationships, 177, 179 Mill, John Stuart, 189 Mills, C. Wright, 249

MIND, Inc., 132 ministry, 29394 minorities see Negroes; Puerto Ricans; specific subject Mitsubishi, 123, 126 monetary system Federal Reserve, 82, 8990, 161 gold as basis, 8485, 89, 90 growth proposed as center, 167 International Monetary Fund, 9091, 239 key-currency concept, 8687 Marxist theory, 83 reforms, 8789 silver as basis, 85, 89 "special drawing rights," 9091 World Bank, 127, 128, 239 world economy, 84, 8689 Morgan, J. P., 106, 126 Morrill Act, 270 motivations, 21517, 230, 28889 Motivation to Work, The (Herzberg), 288 multinational corporations see corporations, multinational Mumford, Lewis, 185 Myrdal, Gunnar, 103n., 133 Myth of the Machine, The (Mumford), 185n. N Nakamura, James L., 111n. Napoleonic Wars, 243 national sovereignties, 22224 monetary systems, 8889 multinational corporations, 91, 97, 98, 23940 superpowers, 22324 natural resources, materials revolution and, 32 natural sciences, 365, 366, 368 Nazism, 216, 217, 245 Negroes Brazil, 132 craft unions, 307 employment, 285, 297, 299, 30610, 330 farmers, 132 ghettos, 123, 239, 244, 301, 306, 308 Harlem, 123 job training, 132, 301, 303, 3078 knowledge jobs, 30810 migration to cities, 227, 228 poverty, 1034 rebellion, 306, 307 school dropouts, 330 school integration, 274 wealth, 123 Netherlands international trade, 67, 68, 92, 95 multinational corporations, 96, 97 Neumann, John von, 38 New Careers Program, 301 New Deal, 218, 228 New Industrial State (Galbraith), 23, 175n. New Jersey Public Employment Career Development Program, 333n. New Society, The (Drucker), 209n., 210n., 258n. New York City administration paper work, 219 air pollution, automotive, 21 garbage collectors' strike, 217 minorities, racial Harlem, 123 influx, 227 New York University, New Careers Program, 301 New York World's Fair of 1964, 69 Nisbit, Robert A., 374n., 375 Nordhoff, Dr. Heinz, 77 nuclear power, 6162 O Oakland, Calif., 132 Oakland Community College (Mich.), 181, 346 oceans, resources of, 2829 ombudsman, 255, 256 organic-chemical industry, 6, 8, 12 Organization for European Economic Cooperation, 318n. organizations see also specific types, 17187 authority and responsibility, 201, 20711 efficiency, 19798 effectiveness, 191ff.

organizations (Continued) employment opportunities, 25860, 27478 executive effectiveness, 197, 199200 flexibility, 19294 government functions, 17985, 21517 growth, 17275 individual rights see individuals interdependence, 17785 knowledge-based, 18587 law, 25152 management, 19599, 28889 objectives, 18995 ombudsman, 255, 256 pluralism, 17187 policymaking objectives and, 18995 participation and authority, 20811 social responsibility and, 2017 reprivatization, 23441 resentment of, 21517, 244, 24849 responsibility within, 20811, 259, 28990 social responsibility, 2017 special-purpose, 17172 team structure, 5556 Osthilfe, 229 Owen, Robert, 287 ownership, 134, 14748 oxygen process, steelmaking, 19, 4445 P packaging industry, 18, 32, 33 Pakistan, 107, 120, 130, 133 industries, 22, 72 paper, 18, 29, 45 Paris, Haussmann's plan, 34, 36 patents international trade in, 49, 71 law, 183 Peace Corps, 247 Peru education, 7879 multinational corporations, 94 petrochemical industry, 2223 petroleum production, 114 pharmaceutical industry, 7, 8, 79 multinational corporations, 93, 94, 1001 research, 36566 philanthropies, 174 philanthropy, failure of, 11820 Philips (of Holland), 97 Phoenicians, 29 phonograph, 8 Piaget, Jean, 319, 340 Pincus, John, 116 plastics industry, 7, 18, 29, 30 Plato, 200 plow, 28 pluralism see also organizations, 17187 freedom, 24958 law, 25152 Point Four Program, 107, 108, 109 Poland, 226, 244 Polanyi, Karl, 118 n. politics see government; Marxism; specific country, subject Popper, Hermine I., 301n. population explosion, 9, 107, 108, 281 "breadbaskets" and market creation, 110 lifespan, 27896 Portugal, 13, 156 postal service, 25152, 25455 poverty aid programs, 11621, 122, 124 climate and, 103 depressed areas, 118, 22829 intolerance of, 7880 means and wealth, inequalities of, 1027 race and, 1036 urban, 22728 power nuclear, 6162 transmission, 45, 50 Prebisch, Raúl, 112, 116 President's Council of Economic Advisors, 166 price, determination of, 16465 Principia Mathematica (Russell and Whitehead), 38 privacy, 25556 Production and Distribution of Knowledge in the United States (Machlup), 263n.

productivity see also specific countries, industry differentials, 11112 economic theory, 14344 education, 33435, 336 knowledge, 15052, 158, 166, 198, 266 scientific management, 271 slavery, ancient Greek, 39 urbanization, 14 working lifespan, 27884, 29096 products vs. prices, 164 professions see also knowledge workers; specific subject, 273, 27677 profit motive, 216, 230 profits, economic theory and, 14548 Project Camelot, 37476 protective tariffs, 6566 agricultural products, 11213 Protestant Reformation, 248 Public Employment Career Development Program, 333n. Puerto Ricans, New York City, 227 Pyramids, Great, 28, 185 R race, poverty and see also Negroes, 1036 radio, 8, 78 information dissemination and world economy, 7881 railroads, 18, 69, 11011, 113, 114 recessions, 138, 297 Rechtsstaat, 258 Reformation, Protestant, 248 Rehn, Gösta, 60, 300, 301 Renaissance, 313, 359 research agriculture land-grant colleges, 270 private enterprise, 18182 and development, corporate, 4857, 94 government-supported, 62, 179, 181, 36465 laboratories and centers, 49, 94, 173 multinational corporations, 94 priorities, 36570 purpose and productivity, 57 Reston, James, 219 retirement, 253, 280, 29096 second careers, 29295 Reuther, Walter, 300 Reuther, Victor, 304 Revisionists, 106 Ricardo, David, 85, 86n., 150, 156 Riessman, Frank, 301n. riots Detroit, 306 Grosstadt, 35 risk, economic theory, 14648 Roosevelt, Franklin, 221 Roosevelt, Theodore, 13536, 172 Rosenwald, Julius, 270n. Rostow, Walt, 144 Rousseau, 189, 248, 253 rubber, 8, 29 Rumania, 110 rural areas population shift to urban areas, 1317, 21 social and technological changes, 112 Russell, 38 Russia see also Soviet bloc agriculture, 4, 9, 1314, 16 nineteenth century, 110 consumer wants, 77 craft unionism lacking, 60 Czechoslovakia, 224 economic structure and growth, 4, 5 education, 266, 329 Five-Year Plans, 165 foreign aid, 121, 122 industries automobile, 21, 22, 77, 78 steel, 6, 17, 19 labor force, 1314 labor-management conflict, 217 race war and, 105 student unrest, 243 super power, 22324 S Saint-Simon, 126 Salk vaccine, 368 Santo Domingo, 224 São Paulo, Negroes, 227 satellites, communication, 80, 239 savings, growth and, 144 Schmookler, J., 51n.

schools see colleges and universities; education Schriever, General, 31 Schumpeter, Joseph, 145, 151 Schweitzer, Pierre-Paul, 90 science interrelationships of disciplines, 4647 purpose and productivity, 57 Scientific Management (Taylor), 120 Scotland, 118 Second International Conference on the War on Hunger, 108 Servan-Schreiber, Jean-Jacques, 95, 96, 265, 357 settlement houses, 120 Shackle, G. L. S., 16768 Shell Oil Co., 6 Shibusawa, Eiichi, 12326, 127, 133 shipbuilding, 45 Sicily, 13, 15 Siemens and Siemens generator, 6, 8, 24 Siemens-Martin steel process, 18 silver as monetary base, 85, 89 Singapore, 72, 104 Singer Sewing Machine Co., 9192, 96 slavery, and production, ancient Greek, 39 Sloan, Alfred, 92, 199 Smith, Adam, 156, 158, 159, 247, 326 Snow, C. P., 39, 188, 216, 217, 369n. social responsibility, 2017 status automobile as symbol, 22 labor, 298, 299300 structures pluralism of, 171ff. reprivatization, 23441 Social Democrats, 213 Social Security, 215 Socrates, 37071 Sokka Gakai, 329 Sony, 253 Sorbonne, 312 South Africa, 20 gold discoveries, 89 South America see also Latin America, specific countries economic growth, 104, 107 food output, 108 industries, 22 military aid, 121 Southeast Asia, 22, 108 South Korea, 117 South Sea islands, "cargo" cults, 79 Soviet bloc see also Russia international trade, 6667 mobility of economic structures, 59 Soviet Unionsee Russia space technology, 3031 Spain, emigration, 13 special drawing rights, 9091 Sputnik, 356, 362 Stages of Economic Growth, The (Rostow), 144 Standard Oil, 6, 9192 Standard Oil Trust, 173 steam engine, 269n., 326 steam industry, 11 steel industry see also specific country, 12, 1720, 29, 265 competitive products, 18 developing countries, 20 multinational corporations, 1001 productivity, 111 employment, 298 investment and costs, 1920 location, 19 multinational corporations, 1001 nationalization, 216 productivity, 111 technology, 8, 1820, 32, 4445 streets and avenues, 3637 strikes, 217, 25051 students see education; colleges and universities; youth subsidiaries, 92, 9394 investment and exports, 9899 regulations, government, 98 subsidies, 6566 Swan, Sir Joseph, 52 Sweden, 110 automobile industry, 50 aviation industry, 50 international trade, 67, 68 living standards, technology and, 50

Sweden (Continued) multinational corporations, 95, 97 ombudsman, 255 power industries, 24, 45, 50 trade unions, 60, 300, 301 Switzerland, 24, 10910 labor force, 13 international trade, 67, 68, 92, 95, 157 multinational corporations, 93, 94, 96, 97 pharmaceutical companies, 93, 94 T taxation, 6166 fringe benefits, 254 labor unions, 64 protective tariffs, 6566, 11213 subsidies, 6566 welfare services, 215 Taylor, Frederick W., 120, 27172, 285, 287 teachers and teaching see also education; colleges and universities, faculty ineffectual, 33637, 377 evaluation, 377 methods and techniques, 339ff. number of teachers, 311, 335 second career, 29394 tenure, 377 training, 33839, 377 technology see also knowledge; specific field or art bankers, industrial development, 50 dynamics, 4350 economic growth, 3ff., 7072 economic nature, 14850 employment see employment; knowledge workers experience-based, 40 gap, 265, 35758 rain drain, 265, 35657 innovation, 4550 inventions, 51 importation of, 50, 69 innovation company size, 62 economic nature, 14850 government sponsorship, 62 organizations for, 5457 knowledge basis, 3841, 46, 26566 living standards, 72 marketing and, 5154 telephone, 6, 8 television living standards and world economy, 7881 education, 33637 textile industries, 12, 18, 69 Thomas Aquinas, St., 371 Tolstoy, 275 toolmakers, 26970 To Plan or Not to Plan (Wooton), 213, 225 totalitarianism, 241, 249 Townes, C. H., 367 Toynbee, 120 trade fairs and exhibitions, 69 transportation automobile, 2122 mass, 3537 travel restrictions, 155 Treaty of Rome, 95 Trollope, Anthony, 188, 275 trucking industry, 67, 22 Truman, Harry S., 107, 108, 109, 136, 221 Turkey, 13, 335 typewriter, 8 U Ukraine, 110 underdeveloped countries see developing countries underwater resources, 2829 Unilever Co., 5657, 94 unions see also specific countries craft, 5961, 3035 dependency, 17778 discrimination, 307 industrial, 6061, 3045 mass-production industries, 300, 304 mobility, 58, 5961, 301 power, 174, 24950 strikes, 217, 25051 taxation, 64 technological unemployment, 60, 297, 3001 United States see specific subject U.S. Air Force, 303