DRAFT 
January 26. 1984 
The practice of playing the stock market for relatively short-term gains has now reached 
such a high level that it tends to give a bad name to capitalism, thus threatening the 
cornucopia of goods and freedoms which only capitalism can provide. 
The country would 
be improved by revision of its income tax law to reduce s_uch activity, instead of treating 
it as a treasured national resource. 
Short-tenn stockholdings are the norm for take-over arbitrageurs and now-numerous "pro-
fessional-bad-guy" investors (often called "raiders" by their detractors) who buy stock 
in quantities sufficient to create or enhance take-over threats and compound their stakes 
and encourage imitation as they are, more often than not, bought out at a profit either 
by the threatened corporation or in some forced sell-out of the corporation's enti:·e busi-
ness. 
But the largest share of short-term stockholding now occurs i n simple super-activi t y 
by securities' portfolio managers as each seeks to be better than the others in predicting 
short-run changes in security prices. 
As large fees, commissions and other paper-shuffling 
profits are earned in the course of increased short-term activity, the result is augmenta-
tion of a prosperous class of "new capital ists," not at all in the mold of Andrew Carnegie , 
who tend to do for the reputation of capitalism what the court of Louis XVI did for the 
reputation of monarchy. 
Too much easy money is now being made by too many pie-divider types as dist inguished from 
pie-producer types. 
This is bound to raise anticapitalistic sentiments as ir is increas-
ingly recognized, for ins tance, (1) that the work of one good dentist does more for general 
felicity t han that of thousands of investment counse lors whose clients in aggregate are 
poorer for their efforts as they try to out-perform one another in hyperactive management 
of pension fund. COnYnOn stock portfolios, and (2) that most of these Investment counselors 
(and stockbrokers and others who service them) are honorable, energetic, often bri I liant 
people who would be more useful in other employment If not drawn by f inancial incentives 
to their present pursuits. 
The problem occurs in part because the stock market provides much more than the minimun 
liquidity necessary to create reasonable cash-in capacity for suppli ers of long-term 
capital to corporations. 
The extra liquidity entices into play a huge s upplemental 
group -
speculators (including pension funds and other institutions with staid names) 
seeking relatively short-term gains. 
Opinion Piece 
Page 2 
Our 1 iquid stock ma rket, sheltered by gentle tax laws, has acquired a Jekyl I-and-Hyde 
character and serves not only as an orderly place for transaction of essential economic 
business but also as a near-ideal gambling casino. 
In recent years the casino part , 
with its great wealth and prominence, fascinating denizens and occasional bonanzas, has 
drawn in ever-increasing cascades of short-term speculation. 
Current 100-Hilllon-share 
days bring to mind the words of Keynes as he looked back at 1929: 
"Spec.u.la.toM may do 110 haJUn a6 bubblv.. an a 1:.:t.e.ady otJt.eam 06 ente.Jtpl!Me. 
But .the. po6ai.011 
(,~ 6e/Uouo when en;teJt.p!U.6e becomu .the bu.bbte. 011 .the 
whUti.poot on <ipec.ul.atimr. 
When .the c.a.paat development 06 a. courWt.y 
becomu a by- pMdu.ct o 6 .t.he act.<.v-Ui.M o 6 a c.a.6.-i.no, .the job .-i.6 likely 
.to be -i..U-do11e." 
What, If anything, should be done about these developments? 
How much legalized gambling 
should our laws encourage, incident to the process of investing In stocks? These are 
very difficult questions. 
One way to address questions of such difficulty is by the "thought experiment" so beloved 
by Albert Einstein. 
Suppose the la.1s were revised to discourage anything but long-term 
holding of common stock. 
Assume, as an example, that the income tax rate on any sort of 
mar ketable-common-stock-related gain was 70% for al,l non-underwriting holders, includ ing 
pension funds and charities, with 110 offsets permitted for losses, unl ess the holding 
period was at least five years. 
Would the country be improved? 
Although tinkering would be desirable to prevent fr inge inequities, it turns out that 
such tax law revision would be a good thing. 
The revision supposed would drastically reduce stock option trading and make the market 
for conrnon stocks le.66 liquid, but liquidity would remain much better than that available 
for owners of farms or industrial real estate and would be good enough. 
Conrn isslons on 
common stock transactions would be higher, but not greatly higher, and would not impede 
serious long-term investment. 
Investment in common stocks would become a 1 ittl e more like real estate investment, or 
the Investment made when Henry Ford received hi s grubstake. 
Investment in newly-issued 
Opinion Piece 
Page 3 
convnon stock and common-stock-related securities like convertible debentures would 
continue, although the first public issues of formerly private companies would create 
a less liquid after-market, tend ing to force prices tCMard level s which would attract 
serious buyers planning to hold for a long time. 
Host expansion of business plant 
would be financed , as it always has been, by retained corporate earnings and borrowings. 
The potentiality for crazy, greedy, speculative stock market orgies would probably be 
reduced. 
Such orgies are harmful to a country, have recently occurred in Israel, 
Kuwait and Hong Kong, and can conceivably occur here, as in 1929 or worse. 
The "professional-bad-guy" gane, on balance not a good thing, would probably be dMlpened 
down to some extent from its present frenzy , and what was left would provide more tax 
revenue. 
Long-term thinki ng would be more dominant, not only in the stock investment process, but 
also in the corporate management process, as the whirlpool of speculation, decried by 
Keynes , was reduced. 
It is contrary to the national i nterest to have corporate managers 
as pre-occupied as they now are with short- tenn records and temporary stock market effects. 
So pre- occupied , managers cause corporate action too similar to that of po l iticians vot ing 
to effect outcomes in the next elect ion rather than the next generat ion. 
After antl-conmon-stock-speculation revision of the income tax law, some portion of the 
nation's best brain power would be diverted from stock speculation Into activities such 
as creation of more efficient retailing or diese l engines. 
Accunulators of capital 
would tend to be a little more in the mold of Edwin Land, David Packard and Jack Nicklaus, 
whose cont ributions prevent resentment of their good fortune. 
Aristotle rightly concluded 
that power should go to people perceived as deserving power, and improvement in the 
reputation for quality of society's big winners would be desirable. 
There i s l i ttle to lose by shifting tax burdens to favor by a greater extent long-term Instead 
of short-term Investment. 
The present gross excess of short-term investment, if squeezed out , 
would not be missed by the overwhelmi ng majority of citi zens. 
Pension and end()f/lllent funds 
could eas i ly adapt to purchasing stocks with the same time horizons now used when pur-
chasing real estate and, in aggregate , would be richer for the change. 
Stockbrokers 
Opinion Piece 
Page 4 
can reasonably be required to join independent truck drivers, unionized air line 
stewardesses, etc., in adjusting to reduced incomes caused by changes made in the laws 
to Improve the economic system. 
Moreover, even If a little pro-social activity were 
eliminated along with more massive anti-social activity , that is no real objection. 
The problem is like that of the cancer surgeon who wisely uses his knife despite the 
inevitable destruction of a I ittle good tissue with the bad. 
With gambling proclivity entrenched in the culture, it would be unwise to try to eliminate 
all gambling. 
But it does not follow that gambling-type activity should be subject to 
subnormal Instead of above-normal income tax rates and be Intermixed influentially with 
the capital development of the country. 
While gains made in long-term common stock invest-
ment should be tax-favored as an Inducement to saving and eventual transfer of power, 
gains made in relatively short-tenn stock investment, in essence mere gambling-type 
activity, should either be taxed normally, or better yet, be taxed at above-normal rates. 
The rewards and penalties of the Internal Revenue Code channel the energies of the 
citizenry and have a high moral content as they encourage one kind of activity over 
another. 
Recently, Congress, at the request of commodity traders and other special 
interests, has legislated in a manner e~actly opposite from right by Imposing on a 
dollar earned in holding a stock index futures contract for ten minutes a tax rate l..fXilJeJL 
than Is paid on a dollar earned in fanning, teaching or night work as a janitor. To 
the extent the income tax law differs from norms of social value judgment, it becomes 
less respected, a serious thing when tax collection depends largely on voluntary comp~l-
ance. The recent legislation impairs what we need , esteem for the tax law, to enhance 
what we would be better off without, more trading in stock index futures. 
The utility of 11thought experiment ," for lesser mortals as well as Einstein, l ies in its 
capacity to force acceptance of truths which are counter-intuitive. 
Counter-intuitive 
as It may be for traditionalists and "free-enterprise" types, the country would work 
better if the income tax law were revised to deter the short-term speculation and 11£.duc.e 
liquidity in the stock market. 
The truly productive part of "free-enterprise" and the 
secur i ty of Its future would thereby be both (I) enhanced by increased emphasis on long-
term effects of investment accanpanied by diversion of talent from speculation to more 
Opinion Piece 
Page 5 
useful work and (2) less likely to be damaged by unsound future legislation attributable 
to public resentment of after-effects of stock market orgies and wasteful proliferation 
of "new capitalists" who produce too little for what they get. 
1514 WOIWS 
