A Perverse Use of Antitrust Law.
by Charles T. Munger. September 2000.
As best I can judge from the Microsoft antitrust case, the Justice
Department believes that any seller of an ever-evolving, many-featured
product--a product that is constantly being improved by adding new
features to every new model--will automatically violate antitrust law if: (1) it
regularly sells its product at one all-features-included price; (2) it has a
dominant market share and (3) the seller plays "catch-up" by adding an
obviously essential feature that has the same function as a product first
marketed by someone else.
If appellate courts are foolish enough to go along with the trial court ruling
in the Microsoft case, virtually every dominant high-tech business in the
United States will be forced to retreat from what is standard competitive
practice for firms all over the world when they are threatened by better
technology first marketed elsewhere.
No other country so ties the hands of its strongest businesses. We can see
why by taking a look at America's own history. Consider the Ford Motor Co.
When it was the dominant U.S. automaker in 1912, a small firm-a
predecessor of General Motors-invented a self-starter that the driver could
use from inside the car instead of getting out to crank the engine. What Ford
did in response was to add a self-starter of its own to its cars (its "one-price"
package)-thus bolstering its dominant business and limiting the inroads of
its small competitor. Do we really want that kind of conduct to be illegal?
Or consider Boeing. Assume Boeing is selling 90 percent of U.S. airliners,
always on a one-price basis despite the continuous addition of better
features to the planes. Do we really want Boeing to stop trying to make its
competitive position stronger-as it also helps travelers and improves safety
by adding these desirable features-just because some of these features were
first marketed by other manufacturers?
The questions posed by the Microsoft case are: (1) what constitutes the
impermissible and illegal practice of "tying" a separate new product to a
dominant old product, and (2) what constitutes the permissible and legal
practice of improving an existing one-price product that is dominant in the
market.
The solution, to avoid ridiculous results and arguments, is easy. We need a
simple, improvement-friendly rule that a new feature is always a permissible
improvement if there is any plausible argument whatever that product users
are in some way better off.
 
It is the nature of the modern era that the highest standards of living usually
come where we find many super-successful corporations that keep their
high market shares mostly through fanatical devotion to improving one-
price products.
 
In recent years, one microeconomic trend has been crucial in helping the
United States play catch-up against foreign manufacturers that had
developed better and cheaper products: our manufacturers learned to buy
ever-larger, one-price packages of features from fewer and more-trusted
suppliers. This essential modern trend is now threatened by the Justice
Department.
 
Microsoft may have some peculiarities of culture that many people don't
like, but it could well be that good software is now best developed within
such a culture. Microsoft may have been unwise to deny that it paid
attention to the competitive effects of its actions. But this is the course legal
advisers often recommend in a case such as this one, where individuals'
motives at Microsoft were mixed and differed from person to person. A
proper antitrust policy should not materially penalize defendants who make
the government prove its case. The incumbent rulers of the Justice
Department are not fit to hold in trust the guidance of antitrust policy if they
allow such considerations of litigation style to govern the development of
antitrust law, a serious business with serious consequences outside the case
in question.
 
While I have never owned a share of Microsoft, I have long watched the
improvement of its software from two vantage points. First, I am an officer
and part owner of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., publisher of the World Book
Encyclopedia, a product I much admire because I know how hard it was to
create and because I grew up with it and found that it helped me throughout
a long life.
 
But despite our careful stewardship of World Book, the value of its
encyclopedia business was grossly and permanently impaired when
Microsoft started including a whole encyclopedia, at virtually no addition in
price, in it software package. Moreover, I believe Microsoft did this hoping
to improve its strong business and knowing it would hurt ours.
 
Even so, and despite the huge damage to World Book, I believe Microsoft
was entitled to improve its software as it did, and that our society gains
greatly--despite some damage to some companies--when its strong
businesses are able to improve their products enough to stay strong.
 
Second, I am chairman and part owner of Daily Journal Corp., publisher of
many small newspapers much read by lawyers and judges. Long ago, this
corporation was in thrall to IBM for its highly computerized operation. Then
it was in thrall to DEC for an even more computerized operation. Now it
uses, on a virtually 100 percent basis, amazingly cheap Microsoft software in
personal computers, in a still more highly computerized operation including
Internet access that makes use of Microsoft's browsers.
 
Given this history of vanished once-dominant suppliers to Daily Journal
Corp., Microsoft's business position looks precarious to me. Yet, for a while
at least, the pervasiveness of Microsoft products in our business and
elsewhere helps us--as well as the courts that make use of our publications--
in a huge way.
 
But Microsoft software would be a lousy product for us and the courts if the
company were not always improving it by adding features such as Explorer,
the Internet browser Microsoft was forced to add to Windows on a catch-up
basis if it didn't want to start moving backward instead of forward.
 
The Justice Department could hardly have come up with a more harmful set
of demands than those it now makes. If it wins, our country will end up
hobbling its best-performing high-tech businesses. And this will be done in
an attempt to get public benefits that no one can rationally predict.
 
Andy Grove of Intel, a company that not long ago was forced out of a silicon
chip business in which it was once dominant, has been widely quoted as
describing his business as one in which "only the paranoid survive." If this is
so, as seems likely, then Microsoft should get a medal, not an antitrust
prosecution, for being so fearful of being left behind and so passionate about
improving its products.
 
Charles T. Munger is vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
chairman and part owner of Daily Journal Corp.
 
A version of this article appeared in the Washington Post on September 1,
2000.
