Basically, It’s Over 
A parable about how one nation came to financial ruin. 
In the early 1700s, Europeans discovered in the Pacific Ocean a large, unpopulated island with a 
temperate climate, rich in all nature's bounty except coal, oil, and natural gas. Reflecting its lack 
of civilization, they named this island "Basicland." 
The Europeans rapidly repopulated Basicland, creating a new nation. They installed a system of 
government like that of the early United States. There was much encouragement of trade, and 
no internal tariff or other impediment to such trade. Property rights were greatly respected and 
strongly enforced. The banking system was simple. It adapted to a national ethos that sought to 
provide a sound currency, efficient trade, and ample loans for credit-worthy businesses while 
strongly discouraging loans to the incompetent or for ordinary daily purchases. 
Moreover, almost no debt was used to purchase or carry securities or other investments, 
including real estate and tangible personal property. The one exception was the widespread 
presence of secured, high-down-payment, fully amortizing, fixed-rate loans on sound houses, 
other real estate, vehicles, and appliances, to be used by industrious persons who lived within 
their means. Speculation in Basicland's security and commodity markets was always rigorously 
discouraged and remained small. There was no trading in options on securities or in derivatives 
other than "plain vanilla" commodity contracts cleared through responsible exchanges under 
laws that greatly limited use of financial leverage. 
In its first 150 years, the government of Basicland spent no more than 7 percent of its gross 
domestic product in providing its citizens with essential services such as fire protection, water, 
sewage and garbage removal, some education, defense forces, courts, and immigration control. 
A strong family-oriented culture emphasizing duty to relatives, plus considerable private charity, 
provided the only social safety net. 
The tax system was also simple. In the early years, governmental revenues came almost entirely 
from import duties, and taxes received matched government expenditures. There was never 
much debt outstanding in the form of government bonds. 
As Adam Smith would have expected, GDP per person grew steadily. Indeed, in the modern area 
it grew in real terms at 3 percent per year, decade after decade, until Basicland led the world in 
GDP per person. As this happened, taxes on sales, income, property, and payrolls were 
introduced. Eventually total taxes, matched by total government expenditures, amounted to 35 
percent of GDP. The revenue from increased taxes was spent on more government-run education 
and a substantial government-run social safety net, including medical care and pensions. 
A regular increase in such tax-financed government spending, under systems hard to "game" by 
the unworthy, was considered a moral imperative—a sort of egality-promoting national 
dividend—so long as growth of such spending was kept well below the growth rate of the 
country's GDP per person. 
Basicland also sought to avoid trouble through a policy that kept imports and exports in near 
balance, with each amounting to about 25 percent of GDP. Some citizens were initially nervous 
because 60 percent of imports consisted of absolutely essential coal and oil. But, as the years 
rolled by with no terrible consequences from this dependency, such worry melted away. 
Basicland was exceptionally creditworthy, with no significant deficit ever allowed. And the 
present value of large "off-book" promises to provide future medical care and pensions appeared 
unlikely to cause problems, given Basicland's steady 3 percent growth in GDP per person and 
restraint in making unfunded promises. Basicland seemed to have a system that would long 
assure its felicity and long induce other nations to follow its example—thus improving the welfare 
of all humanity. 
But even a country as cautious, sound, and generous as Basicland could come to ruin if it failed 
to address the dangers that can be caused by the ordinary accidents of life. These dangers were 
significant by 2012, when the extreme prosperity of Basicland had created a peculiar outcome: 
As their affluence and leisure time grew, Basicland's citizens more and more whiled away their 
time in the excitement of casino gambling. Most casino revenue now came from bets on security 
prices under a system used in the 1920s in the United States and called "the bucket shop system." 
The winnings of the casinos eventually amounted to 25 percent of Basicland's GDP, while 22 
percent of all employee earnings in Basicland were paid to persons employed by the casinos 
(many of whom were engineers needed elsewhere). So much time was spent at casinos that it 
amounted to an average of five hours per day for every citizen of Basicland, including newborn 
babies and the comatose elderly. Many of the gamblers were highly talented engineers attracted 
partly by casino poker but mostly by bets available in the bucket shop systems, with the bets now 
called "financial derivatives." 
Many people, particularly foreigners with savings to invest, regarded this situation as disgraceful. 
After all, they reasoned, it was just common sense for lenders to avoid gambling addicts. As a 
result, almost all foreigners avoided holding Basicland's currency or owning its bonds. They 
feared big trouble if the gambling-addicted citizens of Basicland were suddenly faced with 
hardship. 
And then came the twin shocks. Hydrocarbon prices rose to new highs. And in Basicland's export 
markets there was a dramatic increase in low-cost competition from developing countries. It was 
soon obvious that the same exports that had formerly amounted to 25 percent of Basicland's 
GDP would now only amount to 10 percent. Meanwhile, hydrocarbon imports would amount to 
30 percent of GDP, instead of 15 percent. Suddenly Basicland had to come up with 30 percent of 
its GDP every year, in foreign currency, to pay its creditors. 
How was Basicland to adjust to this brutal new reality? This problem so stumped Basicland's 
politicians that they asked for advice from Benfranklin Leekwanyou Vokker, an old man who was 
considered so virtuous and wise that he was often called the "Good Father." Such consultations 
were rare. Politicians usually ignored the Good Father because he made no campaign 
contributions. 
Among the suggestions of the Good Father were the following. First, he suggested that Basicland 
change its laws. It should strongly discourage casino gambling, partly through a complete ban on 
the trading in financial derivatives, and it should encourage former casino employees—and 
former casino patrons—to produce and sell items that foreigners were willing to buy. Second, as 
this change was sure to be painful, he suggested that Basicland's citizens cheerfully embrace their 
fate. After all, he observed, a man diagnosed with lung cancer is willing to quit smoking and 
undergo surgery because it is likely to prolong his life. 
The views of the Good Father drew some approval, mostly from people who admired the fiscal 
virtue of the Romans during the Punic Wars. But others, including many of Basicland's prominent 
economists, had strong objections. These economists had intense faith that any outcome at all 
in a free market—even wild growth in casino gambling—is constructive. Indeed, these 
economists were so committed to their basic faith that they looked forward to the day when 
Basicland would expand real securities trading, as a percentage of securities outstanding, by a 
factor of 100, so that it could match the speculation level present in the United States just before 
onslaught of the Great Recession that began in 2008. 
The strong faith of these Basicland economists in the beneficence of hypergambling in both 
securities and financial derivatives stemmed from their utter rejection of the ideas of the great 
and long-dead economist who had known the most about hyperspeculation, John Maynard 
Keynes. Keynes had famously said, "When the capital development of a country is the byproduct 
of the operations of a casino, the job is likely to be ill done." It was easy for these economists to 
dismiss such a sentence because securities had been so long associated with respectable wealth, 
and financial derivatives seemed so similar to securities. 
Basicland's investment and commercial bankers were hostile to change. Like the objecting 
economists, the bankers wanted change exactly opposite to change wanted by the Good Father. 
Such bankers provided constructive services to Basicland. But they had only moderate earnings, 
which they deeply resented because Basicland's casinos—which provided no such constructive 
services—reported immoderate earnings from their bucket-shop systems. Moreover, foreign 
investment bankers had also reported immoderate earnings after building their own bucket-shop 
systems—and carefully obscuring this fact with ingenious twaddle, including claims that rational 
risk-management systems were in place, supervised by perfect regulators. Naturally, the 
ambitious Basicland bankers desired to prosper like the foreign bankers. And so they came to 
believe that the Good Father lacked any understanding of important and eternal causes of human 
progress that the bankers were trying to serve by creating more bucket shops in Basicland. 
Of course, the most effective political opposition to change came from the gambling casinos 
themselves. This was not surprising, as at least one casino was located in each legislative district. 
The casinos resented being compared with cancer when they saw themselves as part of a long-
established industry that provided harmless pleasure while improving the thinking skills of its 
customers. 
As it worked out, the politicians ignored the Good Father one more time, and the Basicland banks 
were allowed to open bucket shops and to finance the purchase and carry of real securities with 
extreme financial leverage. A couple of economic messes followed, during which every 
constituency tried to avoid hardship by deflecting it to others. Much counterproductive 
governmental action was taken, and the country's credit was reduced to tatters. Basicland is now 
under new management, using a new governmental system. It also has a new nickname: 
Sorrowland. 
 
