WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:
Consolidated "normal" net operating income (i.e., before irregularly occurring
items shown in the table below) for the calendar year 1995 increased to $30,208,000
($4.24 per share) from $24,659,000 ($3.46 per share) in the previous year.

Consolidated net income (i.e., after irregularly occurring items shown in the
table below) increased to $34,541,000 ($4.85 per share) from $18,972,000 ($2.66
per share) in the previous year.

Wesco has two major subsidiaries: Wesco-Financial Insurance Company
("Wes-FIC"), headquartered in Omaha and engaged principally in the reinsurance
business, and Precision Steel, headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel
warehousing and specialty metal products businesses. Consolidated net income for
the two years just ended breaks down as follows (in 000s except for per-share
amounts) (1):
Year Ended
December 31, 1995 December 31, 1994
Per
Per
Wesco
Wesco
Amount
Share Amount
Share
"Normal" net operating income of:
Wesco-Financial Insurance business $26,496 $3.72 $21,582 $3.03
Precision Steel businesses.. 2,386 .33 2,900 .40
All other "normal" net operating income (2) 1,326 .19 177 .03
30,208 4.24 24,659 3.46
Net gain on sales of marketable securities 4,333 .61 163 .02
Decline in value of USAir preferred stock (5,850) (3) (.82)
Wesco consolidated net income. $34,541 $4.85 $18,972 $2.66

(1) All figures are net of income taxes.
(2) After deduction of interest and other corporate expenses and costs and expenses associated with delinquent loans and
foreclosed real estate previously charged against Wesco's former Mutual Savings and Loan Association subsidiary. Income
was from ownership of the Wesco headquarters office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, and interest and
dividend income from cash equivalents and marketable securities owned outside the insurance subsidiary.
(3) Represents writedown of investment in preferred stock of USAir Group, Inc., explained in section "Convertible Preferred
Stockholdings" below.

This supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in
audited financial statements which follow standard accounting convention. The
supplementary breakdown is furnished because it is considered useful to
shareholders.

Wesco-Financial Insurance Company ("Wes-FIC")

Wes-FIC's normal net income for 1995 was $26,496,000, versus $21,582,000 for
1994. The profitability to date on its super-catastrophe ("super-cat") reinsurance
business, which it entered in 1994, was responsible for this increase.

1

At the end of 1995 Wes-FIC retained about $33 million in invested assets, offset
by claims reserves, from its former reinsurance arrangement with Fireman's Fund
Group. This arrangement was terminated August 31, 1989. However, it will take a
long time before all claims are settled, and, meanwhile, Wes-FIC is being helped
over many years by proceeds from investing "float."

We previously informed shareholders that Wes-FIC had entered into the business
of super-cat reinsurance through retrocessions from National Indemnity Company
("NICO"), a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway,
Wesco's ultimate parent. Wes-FIC's entry into the super-cat reinsurance business
early in 1994 followed the large augmentation of its claims-paying capacity caused by
its merger with Mutual Savings, the former savings and loan subsidiary of Wesco. In
1994, in recognition of Wes-FIC's sound financial condition, Standard and Poor's
Corporation assigned to Wes-FIC the highest possible claims-paying-ability rating:
AAA.

The super-cat reinsurance business, in which Wes-FIC is engaged, continues to
be a very logical business for Wes-FIC. After all, Wes-FIC has a large net worth in
relation to annual premiums being earned. And this is exactly the condition rationally
required for any insurance company planning to be a "stand alone" reinsurer
covering super-catastrophe risks it can't safely pass on to others sure to remain
solvent if a large super-catastrophe comes. Such a "stand alone" reinsurer must be a
kind of Fort Knox, prepared occasionally, without calling on any other reinsurers for
help, to pay out in a single year many times more than premiums coming in, as it
covers losses from some super catastrophe worse than Hurricane Andrew. In short, it
needs a balance sheet a lot like Wes-FIC's.

In connection with the retrocessions of super-cat reinsurance from NICO to
Wes-FIC the nature of the situation as it has evolved is such that Berkshire
Hathaway, owning 100% of NICO and only 80% of Wesco and Wes-FIC, does not,
for some philanthropic reason, ordinarily retrocede to Wes-FIC any reinsurance
business that Berkshire Hathaway considers desirable and that is available only in
amounts below what Berkshire Hathaway wants for itself on the terms offered.
Instead, retrocessions occur only occasionally, under limited conditions and with
some compensation to Berkshire Hathaway. Such retrocessions ordinarily happen
only (1) when Berkshire Hathaway, for some reason (usually a policy of overall risk
limitation), desires lower amounts of business than are available on the terms offered
and (2) Wes-FIC has adequate capacity to bear the risk assumed and (3) Wes-FIC
pays a fair ceding commission designed to cover part of the cost of getting and
managing insurance business.

Generally, Berkshire Hathaway, in dealing with partly owned subsidiaries, tries
to lean over a little backward in an attempt to observe what Justice Cardozo called
"the punctilio of an honor the most sensitive," but it cannot be expected to make
large and plain giveaways of Berkshire Hathaway assets or business to a partially
owned subsidiary like Wes-FIC.
2

Given Berkshire Hathaway's unwillingness to make plain giveaways to Wes-FIC
and reductions in opportunities in the super-cat reinsurance market in recent years,
prospects are often poor for Wes-FIC's acquisition of retroceded super-cat reinsurance.
Nonetheless, in February 1994, Wes-FIC was offered by NICO participations in four
very unusual super-cat reinsurance contracts. Considering its other exposures to the
same risks, NICO was willing to retrocede to Wes-FIC 20% of what was then available
to NICO under each contract in return for a ceding commission amounting to 3% of
Wes-FIC's premiums to be received. The remaining 80% of the risk was to be retained
by NICO. A little later, a fifth retrocession was offered: 10% of a one-year NICO
property loss contract with a maximum loss amount of $50 million. The annual
premium was 5% of the maximum possible loss. Then, in June, a sixth contract became
available.

Wes-FIC promptly accepted all of these six unusual super-cat reinsurance
participations offered by NICO in 1994.

In the first four contracts, in aggregate, Wes-FIC thus became exposed, during a
single year, to either winning about $4 million pre-tax or losing about $20 million
pre-tax. In addition, there is some slight possibility of a huge "long tail" loss for Wes-
FIC and NICO many years after the four contracts ended, because a minority part of
the insurance was liability insurance written on an "occurrence" basis. This is not the
first time such "long tail" risks have been accepted by Wes-FIC. There are also, it
should be remembered, possibilities for unpleasant surprises involving similar possi-
ble large "long tail" losses, many years hence, from Wes-FIC's long-terminated
reinsurance arrangement with Fireman's Fund Group. Wes-FIC, now as then, is
willing to run such "long tail" risks, carefully weighed against prospects for gain,
provided it is much better capitalized than other insurance companies more influ-
enced by animal spirits and institutional momentums.

In the fifth super-cat retrocession to Wes-FIC from NICO, which covered only
property loss, there was no possibility of a surprising "long tail" loss. However, for
the year covered, Wes-FIC had a very small chance of losing $5 million pre-tax,
while it could gain only $250,000, less 3%, leaving Wes-FIC's net proceeds
$242,500, pre-tax.

In the sixth retrocession from NICO, Wes-FIC participated to the extent of 5% in a
$400 million contract with 20th Century Industries, a California insurer currently
attempting to recover from devastating effects of the Northridge, California earthquake.
The amount of reinsurance under the contract (covering what was mostly earthquake
risk) declined monthly over the term, and expired early in 1995 as 20th Century
withdrew from the homeowners and earthquake insurance markets in California. Wes-
FIC earned a premium of approximately $1 million in 1995 under the contract.

Needless to say, NICO does not believe that the average yearly loss to be
expected from writing over many years a great series of super-cat reinsurance
contracts like those it has retroceded in part to Wes-FIC would be as high as the one-
year premiums to be received. But such super-cat reinsurance, like other super-cat
reinsurance, is not for the faint of heart. A huge variation in annual results, with some
very unpleasant years, is inevitable.

3

But it is precisely what must, in the nature of things, be associated with these
bad possibilities, with their huge and embarrassing adverse consequences in occa-
sional years, that makes Wes-FIC like its way of being in the super-cat business.
Buyers (particularly wise buyers) of super-cat reinsurance often want to deal with
wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway subsidiaries (possessing as they do the highest
possible credit ratings and a reliable corporate personality) instead of other reinsur-
ers less cautious, straightforward and well endowed. And many competing sellers of
super-cat reinsurance are looking for a liberal "intermediary's" profit, hard to get
because they must find a "layoff" reinsurer both (1) so smart that it is sure to stay
strong enough to pay possible losses yet (2) so casual about costs that it is not much
bothered by a liberal profit earned by some intermediary entity not willing to retain
any major risk. Thus the forces in place can rationally be expected to cause
acceptable long-term results for well-financed, disciplined decision makers, despite
horrible losses in some years and other years of restricted opportunity to write
business. And, again, we wish to repeat that we expect only acceptable long-term
results. We see no possibility for bonanza.

It should also be noted that Wes-FIC, in the arrangements recently made with
NICO, receives a special business-acquisition advantage from using Berkshire
Hathaway's general reputation. Under all the circumstances, a 3% ceding commis-
sion seems more than fair to Wes-FIC. Certainly and obviously, Berkshire Hathaway
would not offer terms so good to any other entity outside the Berkshire Hathaway
affiliated group.

Finally, we repeat an important disclosure about Wes-FIC's super-cat-reinsur-
ance-acquisition mechanics. It is impractical to have people in California make
complex accept-or-reject decisions for Wes-FIC when retrocessions of reinsurance
are offered by Berkshire Hathaway insurance subsidiaries. But, happily, the Berkshire
Hathaway insurance group executives making original business-acquisition decisions
are greatly admired and trusted by the writer and will be "eating their own cooking."
Under such circumstances, Wesco's and Wes-FIC's boards of directors, on the
writer's recommendation, have simply approved automatic retrocessions of reinsur-
ance to Wes-FIC as offered by one or more wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway
subsidiaries. Each retrocession is to be accepted forthwith in writing in Nebraska by
agents of Wes-FIC who are at the same time salaried employees of wholly owned
subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway. Moreover, each retrocession will be made at a
3%-of-premiums ceding commission. Finally, two conditions must be satisfied:
(1) Wes-FIC must get 20% or less of the risk (before taking into account effects from
the ceding commission) and (2) wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway subsidiaries
must retain at least 80% of the identical risk (again, without taking into account
effects from the ceding commission).

We will not ordinarily describe individual super-cat reinsurance contracts in full
detail to Wesco shareholders. That would be contrary to our competitive interest.
Instead, we will try to summarize reasonably, more or less as we have done here.

4

Will more reinsurance be later available to Wes-FIC through Berkshire
Hathaway subsidiaries on the basis and using the automatic procedure we have
above described? Well, we have often proved poor prognosticators. We can only say
that we hope so and that more reinsurance should come, albeit irregularly and with
long intermissions, if buyers of super-cat coverage are rational. However, in 1995 no
entirely new super-cat contracts were retroceded to Wes-FIC.

We continue to examine other possible insurance-writing opportunities, and
also insurance company acquisitions, not involving Berkshire Hathaway.

Wes-FIC is now a very strong insurance company, with very low costs, and, one
way or another, in the future as in the past, we expect to continue to find and seize at
least a few sensible insurance opportunities.

On super-cat reinsurance accepted by Wes-FIC to date (March 8, 1996) there
has been no loss whatsoever that we know of. Underwriting profit of $6.3 million,
before taxes, benefited 1995 earnings. In contrast, no underwriting profit flowed
through Wesco's books in 1994 because none of its super-cat contracts expired in
1994, and our accounting policy requires contract expiration before super-cat
underwriting profit is recognized. Needless to say, we would not have similar
reluctance to report losses before contract expirations. Our super-cat accounting
policy is not irrationally super-conservative, although it may amount to "best-
practice" accounting.

Precision Steel

The businesses of Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, headquartered in the
outskirts of Chicago at Franklin Park, Illinois, contributed $2,386,000 to normal net
operating income in 1995, down 18% compared with $2,900,000 in 1994. The
decrease in 1995 profit occurred as pounds of product sold decreased 9%. Revenues
were up only 0.2%, reflecting the pounding which competition gave to prices.

Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses in
1995 continued to provide an excellent return on resources employed.

Tag Ends from Savings and Loan Days

All that now remains outside Wes-FIC but within Wesco as a consequence of
Wesco's former involvement with Mutual Savings, Wesco's long-held savings and
loan subsidiary, is a small real estate subsidiary, MS Property Company, that holds tag
ends of assets and liabilities with a net book value (after writedowns considered
adequate) of about $25 million. Operations (including writedowns) of MS Property
Company caused an after-tax loss to Wesco in 1995 of about $700,000. Sooner or
later Wesco is expected to realize at least a little more than $25 million from MS
Property Company's net assets, after earning modest returns until that time on the
$25 million of book value involved. MS Property Company's 1995 loss, immaterial
versus Wesco's present size, is included in the foregoing breakdown of earnings
within "all other 'normal' net operating income."

5

Of course, the main tag end from Wesco's savings and loan days is 7,200,000
shares of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac"), purchased by
Mutual Savings for $71.7 million at a time when Freddie Mac shares could be lawfully
owned only by a savings and loan association. This holding, with a market value of
$601.2 million at yearend 1995, now reposes in Wes-FIC. And, in the years following
our initial purchase, Freddie Mac and its similar cousin, "Fannie Mae," have made
matters pretty miserable for the savings and loan industry by taking over most
financing of low-to-moderate-cost homes.

For us, at least, our experience in shifting from savings and loan operation to
ownership of Freddie Mac shares tends to confirm a long-held notion that being
prepared, on a few occasions in a lifetime, to act promptly in scale in doing some
simple thing will often be enough to make the financial results of that lifetime quite
satisfactory.

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income

All other "normal" net operating income, net of interest paid and general
corporate expenses, increased to $1,326,000 in 1995 from $177,000 in 1994.
Sources were (1) rents ($2,954,000 gross) from Wesco's Pasadena office property
(leased almost entirely to outsiders and with CenFed Bank as the ground floor
tenant), and (2) interest and dividends from cash equivalents and marketable
securities held outside the insurance subsidiary, mostly offset in both years by costs
and expenses (including additions to loss reserves) of liquidating tag-end delinquent
loans and foreclosed real estate. The 1995 and 1994 figures also include intercom-
pany charges for interest expense ($965,000 and $826,000 after taxes, respectively)
on borrowings from Wes-FIC principally made late in 1993 to facilitate the transfer of
loans and foreclosed properties to MS Property Company. This intercompany interest
expense does not affect Wesco's consolidated net income inasmuch as the same
amount is included as interest income in Wes-FIC's "normal" net operating income.

Net Securities Gains and Losses

Wesco's aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, amounted to
$4,333,000, after income taxes, in 1995, and included $4,192,000 realized on the
conversion to common stock and sale of Wesco's investment in cumulative converti-
ble preferred stock of Champion International Corporation. Wesco's earnings for
1994 contained securities gains of $163,000, after income taxes, and also reflected
the after-tax effect of a writedown of an investment in preferred stock of USAir
Group, Inc. by $5,850,000, described in the following section entitled "Convertible
Preferred Stockholdings."

Convertible Preferred Stockholdings

At the end of 1995, Wesco and its subsidiaries owned $92 million, at original
cost, in convertible preferred stocks of Salomon Inc ("Salomon") and USAir Group,
Inc. ("USAir"), both requiring redemption at par value within ten years or so from
date of acquisition.

6

The investments are carried on Wesco's consolidated balance sheet at fair
market value, with any difference between historical cost and market value as to
Salomon, and between adjusted cost and market value as to USAir, included in
shareholders' equity, net of income tax effect, without affecting reported net income,
according to accounting convention. The investment in USAir was written down to
fair market value of $3 million effective December 31, 1994, and this $3 million
figure is now treated as adjusted cost; the $5.9 million after-tax loss on the
writedown to the new adjusted cost was shown as a separate charge on Wesco's
1994 statement of income. Following is a summary of these investments at yearend
1995:

Conversion Price
Security
Preferred
Dividend
Rate
Par Value
of
Holding
at which Par
Value may be
Exchanged for
Common Stock
Market Price
of Common
Stock on
12/31/95
Salomon Inc.
9.00% $80 Million
$38.00
$35.38
9.25%
12 Million
13.25
USAir Group, Inc.
38.74
12/31/95
Yearend
Carrying
Value of
Holding
$ 84 Million
7.2 Million

These preferred stocks were purchased at the same time Wesco's parent
corporation, Berkshire Hathaway, purchased additional amounts of the same stocks
at the same price per share. On October 31, 1995, in accordance with the terms of
its convertible preferred stock, Salomon redeemed $20 million par value of its shares
owned by Wesco at cost plus accrued dividends.

In previous years we noted that "few, if any, investors have ever prospered
mightily from investing in convertible preferred stocks of leading corporations." Our
two holdings at yearend 1995 appear to bear this out. We estimate that (1) our
$80 million Salomon holding was worth about $4 million more than we paid for it,
and (2) our $12 million USAir holding, written down to an adjusted cost of
$3 million at yearend 1994, was worth about $4.2 million more than such adjusted
cost, but $4.8 million less than we paid for it. These figures when combined created
$8.2 million in pre-tax appreciation above adjusted cost, and $0.8 million less than
actual cost, considering the $9 million pre-tax loss realized in 1994 on the USAir
Group writedown. Readers should bear in mind, however, that Wesco's experience
to date has been much better in an investment in convertible preferred stock of The
Gillette Company, made in 1989 at cost of $40 million, and converted into Gillette
common stock in 1991. This investment is carried at a $166.8 million yearend market
value in Wesco's consolidated 1995 balance sheet, $126.8 million higher than the
investment cost. Also, as discussed above, Wesco realized an after-tax gain of
$4.2 million in 1995 on the conversion to common stock and sale of its $23 million
investment in preferred stock of Champion International Corporation. However,
even with all good experience factored in, our overall investment returns from
convertible preferred stockholdings have been unexciting, just as we have predicted.

Consolidated Balance Sheet And Related Discussion

As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, Wesco increased its net
worth, as accountants compute it under their conventions, to $957.6 million ($134

7

```text
per Wesco share) at yearend 1995 from $678.1 million ($95 per Wesco share) at
yearend 1994.

The $279.5 million increase in reported net worth in 1995 was the result of two
factors: (1) $252.2 million resulting from continued net appreciation of investments
after provision for future taxes on capital gains; and (2) $27.3 million from retention
of 1995 net income after deduction of dividends paid.

The foregoing $134-per-share book value approximates liquidation value assum-
ing that all Wesco's non-security assets would liquidate, after taxes, at book value.
Probably, this assumption is too conservative. But our computation of liquidation
value is unlikely to be too low by more than a couple of dollars per Wesco share,
because (1) the liquidation value of Wesco's consolidated real estate holdings
(where interesting potential now lies almost entirely in Wesco's equity in its office
property in Pasadena) is now far below its former high, and (2) unrealized
appreciation in other assets (primarily Precision Steel) cannot be large enough, in
relation to Wesco's overall size, to change very much the overall computation of
after-tax liquidating value.

Of course, so long as Wesco does not liquidate, and does not sell any
appreciated assets, it has, in effect, an interest-free "loan" from the government
equal to its deferred income taxes on unrealized gains, subtracted in determining its
net worth. This interest-free "loan" from the government is at this moment working
for Wesco shareholders and amounted to about $45 per Wesco share at yearend
1995.

However, some day, perhaps soon, major parts of the interest-free "loan" must
be paid as assets are sold. Therefore, Wesco's shareholders have no perpetual
advantage creating value for them of $45 per Wesco share. Instead, the present
value of Wesco's shareholders' advantage must logically be much lower than $45 per
Wesco share. In the writer's judgment, the value of Wesco's advantage from its
temporary, interest-free "loan" was probably about $15 per Wesco share at yearend
1995.

After the value of the advantage inhering in the interest-free "loan" is estimated,
a reasonable approximation can be made of Wesco's intrinsic value per share. This
approximation is made by simply adding (1) the value of the advantage from the
interest-free "loan" per Wesco share and (2) liquidating value per Wesco share.
Others may think differently, but the foregoing approach seems reasonable to the
writer as a way of estimating intrinsic value per Wesco share.

Thus, if the value of the advantage from the interest-free tax-deferral "loan"
present was $15 per Wesco share at yearend 1995, and after-tax liquidating value
was then about $134 per share (figures that seem rational to the writer), Wesco's
intrinsic value per share would become only about $149 per share at yearend 1995,
up 43% from intrinsic value as guessed in a similar calculation at the end of 1994.
And, finally, this reasonable-to-this-writer, $149-per-share figure for intrinsic per
share value of Wesco stock should be compared with the $182 per share price at
8
```

which Wesco stock was selling on December 31, 1995. This comparison indicates
that Wesco stock was then selling about 22% above intrinsic value.

Business and human quality in place at Wesco continues to be not nearly as
good, all factors considered, as that in place at Berkshire Hathaway. In this connec-
tion, it should be remembered that the writer caused or helped cause (1) a loss on
Wesco's former electrical equipment subsidiary, (2) what will now plainly turn out
to be a bad financial result from development of foreclosed mostly-seaside land in
the Montecito district of Santa Barbara and (3) some recent losses from boom-time
mortgage loans on residences. Wesco, under the writer's leadership, managed to be
clobbered in three different ways by the California real estate crash, albeit in
categories employing a very small portion of Wesco's assets.

Wesco is not an equally-good-but-smaller version of Berkshire Hathaway, better
because its small size makes growth easier. Instead, each dollar of book value at
Wesco continues plainly to provide much less intrinsic value than a similar dollar of
book value at Berkshire Hathaway.

All that said, we make no attempt to appraise relative attractiveness for invest-
ment of Wesco versus Berkshire Hathaway stock at present stock-market quotations.

We are not now pessimists, on a long-term basis, about business expansion.
Despite present ebullient markets for entire businesses, making it hard for Wesco to
find attractive opportunities, we do not believe that such opportunities will never
come.

On January 17, 1996 Wesco increased its regular dividend from 25½ cents per
share to 261½ cents per share, payable March 6, 1996, to shareholders of record as of
the close of business on February 7, 1996.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its
subsidiaries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As
usual, your careful attention is sought with respect to these items.

March 8, 1996

Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board

9