WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:
Consolidated "normal" net operating income (i.e., before irregularly occurring
items shown in the table below) for the calendar year 1994 increased to $24,659,000
($3.46 per share) from $20,382,000 ($2.87 per share) in the previous year.

Consolidated net income (i.e., after irregularly occurring items shown in the
table below) decreased to $18,972,000 ($2.66 per share) from $19,718,000 ($2.77
per share) in the previous year.

Wesco in 1994 had two major subsidiaries: Wesco-Financial Insurance Com-
pany ("Wes-FIC"), headquartered in Omaha and engaged principally in the reinsur-
ance business and in indirect real estate lending following its statutory merger with
Mutual Savings on January 1, 1994, and Precision Steel, headquartered in Chicago
and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty metal products businesses.
Consolidated net income for the two years just ended breaks down as follows (in
000s except for per-share amounts) (1):

Year Ended
December 31, 1994
December 31, 1993
Per
Per
Wesco
Wesco
Amount
Share
Amount
Share
"Normal" net operating income of:
Wes-FIC business
$21,582
$3.03
$12,434
$1.75
Precision Steel businesses.
2,900
.40
2,189
.31
Mutual Savings
2,458
.35
All other "normal" net operating income (2)
177
.03
3,301
.46
24,659
3.46
20,382
2.87
Gain on sales of marketable securities
163
.02
1,156
.16
Decline in value of USAir preferred stock
(5,850) (3) (.82)
Unusual income tax charges
(1,109) (4) (.16)
Gain on disposition of Mutual Savings' deposits and
some loans
906
.13
Loss on disposition of 80% interest in New America
Electrical Corporation
(1,617)
(.23)
Wesco consolidated net income
$18,972 $2.66
$19,718
$2.77
(1) All figures are net of income taxes.

(2) After deduction of interest and other corporate expenses and, in 1994, costs and expenses associated with delinquent
loans and foreclosed real estate previously charged against Mutual Savings. Income was from ownership of the Wesco
headquarters office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, interest and dividend income from cash equivalents and
marketable securities owned outside the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries, and the electrical equipment
manufacturing business, 80%-owned by Wesco through June 30, 1993.

(3) Represents writedown of investment in preferred stock of USAir Group, Inc., explained in section "Convertible Preferred
Stockholdings" below.

(4) Consists principally of effect of tax rate change on deferred tax on unrealized appreciation of investments.
1

This supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in
audited financial statements which follow standard accounting convention. The
supplementary breakdown is furnished because it is considered useful to
shareholders.

Mutual Savings and its Successors

On October 8, 1993, Mutual Savings closed the sale covered by its contract,
previously made and announced, with CenFed Bank ("CENFED"), a highly re-
garded, insured institution also headquartered in Pasadena. In part, this buyer had
been chosen to take over Mutual Savings' offices because it was considered likely to
serve depositors safely and well.

In the closing of the transaction, Mutual Savings transferred to CENFED that part
of Mutual Savings' liabilities (principally insured deposit liabilities) which was
causing Mutual Savings to pay substantial deposit-insurance premiums in exchange
for remaining a highly regulated savings and loan association. Also transferred to
CENFED were some mortgage loans and a large amount of cash offset by deposits
assumed.

At roughly the same time, Mutual Savings transferred certain troubled assets to
MS Property Company ("MS Property"), a newly organized Wesco real estate
subsidiary that is slowly liquidating those assets. The 1994 yearend balances on MS
Property's books of those transferred assets were:

(1) the unsold residue (with a book value of $18.8 million) of Mutual
Savings' now-slow-selling residential real estate project, created in an attempt to
maximize proceeds from foreclosed mostly-seaside land in the Montecito dis-
trict of Santa Barbara, California, plus

(2) other foreclosed real estate and troubled first mortgage loans on
houses, with a combined book value of $8.3 million.

On January 1, 1994, after its transfer of troubled assets to MS Property, Mutual
Savings merged into Wesco's long-existing Omaha-domiciled insurance subsidiary,
Wes-FIC, thus causing continuation of Mutual Savings' business and continued
business holding of its main assets by Wes-FIC. Assets thus transferred incident to
the merger with Wes-FIC consisted mostly of 7.2 million shares of Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") with a cost of $71.7 million and a
1994 yearend market value of $363.6 million (based on the 1994 yearend NYSE
quotation of $50.50 per Freddie Mac share), plus approximately $30 million of high
quality mortgage-backed securities.

Accordingly, 1993 was the last year in which Wesco reported any earnings from
the savings and loan business. Beginning in 1994 roughly all former savings and loan
business earning power augments reported results of Wesco's Wes-FIC subsidiary,
now greatly enlarged in net worth.

2

An after-tax gain of $906,000 ($.13 per Wesco share) was realized in the
transaction between Mutual Savings and CENFED. As part of this transaction Wesco
loaned CENFED's parent corporation $4 million for three years at a market rate of
interest and made some guarantees of loan quality. Also, CENFED leased from
Wesco for 15 years at a market rental rate the ground floor space formerly occupied
by Mutual Savings in Wesco's retained headquarters building, formerly named the
"Mutual Savings Building' and now renamed the "CenFed Bank Building' pursuant
to terms of the lease. And, later, the building was transferred by Wesco to MS
Property.

The building, with its new name, is shown in the photograph at the front of this
annual report.

Because all failures and faults deserve extra attention in annual reports, we
hereby repeat what we emphasized last year: It is not only Wes-FIC that has
succeeded to former assets of Mutual Savings. As indicated above, Wesco still retains
a recently formed real estate subsidiary that, mostly, it does not want. The subsidiary,
MS Property, both (1) holds and operates Wesco's office and parking property in
Pasadena, California and (2) continues liquidation of the $27.1 million (at yearend
1994 book value) of assets heretofore described that were neither transferred to
CENFED nor left in Mutual Savings when it was merged into Wes-FIC. The liquida-
tion part of the game is occurring in a poor climate for liquidations. The California
real estate crash has been no small crash, and it has taken a large toll on values. MS
Property took a $3.0 million pre-tax writedown of the residue of Mutual Savings'
Montecito residential real estate project during 1994, following a $2.0 million pre-tax
writedown taken by Mutual Savings in 1993. Our best guess is that Wesco will
eventually (and slowly) realize, from all real estate assets of MS Property combined,
(1) more than present book value (after the two writedowns) but (2) less than
such present book value plus interest imputed at a market rate, after corporate taxes.

Generally, real estate holding, and even real estate development, when con-
ducted in publicly held corporate form, subject to corporate income taxes, has a very
poor record for serving shareholders well. This occurs because the real estate game,
in which most market values are set in transactions involving people who are not
paying corporate income taxes and many of whom pay virtually no taxes at all, is not
ordinarily lucrative enough to create a decent return for persons in the same game,
disadvantaged by a level of corporate taxes. We continue to have no antidote for the
share of this general investment disadvantage now being borne by Wesco sharehold-
ers. But, fortunately, it affects only a very small percentage of Wesco's consolidated
assets.

Precision Steel

The businesses of Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, headquartered in the
outskirts of Chicago at Franklin Park, Illinois, contributed $2,900,000 to normal net
operating income in 1994, compared with $2,189,000 in 1993.

Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses in
1994 continued to provide an excellent return on resources employed.

Wesco-Financial Insurance Company ("Wes-FIC")

Wes-FIC's normal net income for 1994 was $21,582,000, up significantly from
$12,434,000 for 1993. The earnings on the assets contributed in the merger with
Mutual Savings at the beginning of 1994 were responsible for the greater part of this
increase.

At the end of 1994 Wes-FIC retained about $35 million in invested assets, offset
by claims reserves, from its former reinsurance arrangement with Fireman's Fund
Group. This arrangement was terminated August 31, 1989. However, it will take a
long time before all claims are settled, and, meanwhile, Wes-FIC is being helped
over many years by proceeds from investing "float."

In last year's annual report we informed shareholders that Wes-FIC had entered
into the business of super-catastrophe ("super-cat") reinsurance through retroces-
sions from National Indemnity Company ("NICO"), a wholly owned insurance
company subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Wesco's ultimate parent. Wes-FIC's
entry into the super-cat reinsurance business followed the large augmentation of its
claims-paying capacity caused by its merger with Mutual Savings. In 1994, in
recognition of Wes-FIC's sound financial condition, Standard and Poor's Corporation
assigned to Wes-FIC the highest possible claims-paying-ability rating: AAA.

The super-cat reinsurance business continues to be a very logical business for
Wes-FIC. After all, Wes-FIC has a large net worth in relation to annual premiums
being earned. And this is exactly the condition rationally required for any insurance
company planning to be a "stand alone" reinsurer covering super-catastrophe risks it
can't safely pass on to others sure to remain solvent if a large super-catastrophe
comes. Such a "stand alone" reinsurer must be a kind of Fort Knox, prepared
occasionally, without calling on any other reinsurers for help, to pay out in a single
year many times more than premiums coming in, as it covers losses from some super
catastrophe worse than Hurricane Andrew. In short, it needs a balance sheet a lot
like Wes-FIC's.

In connection with the retrocessions of super-cat reinsurance from NICO to
Wes-FIC the nature of the situation as it has evolved is such that Berkshire
Hathaway, owning 100% of NICO and only 80% of Wesco and Wes-FIC, is not, for
some philanthropic reason, ordinarily going to retrocede to Wes-FIC any reinsurance
business that Berkshire Hathaway considers desirable and that is available only in
amounts below what Berkshire Hathaway wants for itself on the terms offered.
Instead, retrocessions will occur only occasionally, under limited conditions and with
some compensation to Berkshire Hathaway. Such retrocessions will ordinarily hap-
pen only (1) when Berkshire Hathaway, for some reason (usually a policy of overall
risk limitation) desires lower amounts of business than are available on the terms
offered and (2) Wes-FIC has adequate capacity to bear the risk assumed and

4

(3) Wes-FIC pays a fair ceding commission designed to cover part of the cost of
getting and managing insurance business.

Generally, Berkshire Hathaway, in dealing with partly owned subsidiaries, tries
to lean over a little backward in an attempt to observe what Justice Cardozo called
"the punctilio of an honor the most sensitive," but it cannot be expected to make
large and plain giveaways of Berkshire Hathaway assets or business to a partially
owned subsidiary like Wes-FIC.

Given Berkshire Hathaway's unwillingness to make plain giveaways to Wes-FIC
and reductions in opportunities in the super-cat reinsurance market in recent years,
prospects are often poor for Wes-FIC's acquisition of retroceded super-cat reinsur-
ance. Nonetheless, in February 1994, Wes-FIC was offered by NICO participations in
four very unusual super-cat reinsurance contracts. Considering its other exposures to
the same risks, NICO was willing to retrocede to Wes-FIC 20% of what was then
available to NICO under each contract in return for a ceding commission amounting
to 3% of Wes-FIC's premiums to be received. The remaining 80% of the risk was to
be retained by NICO. A little later, a fifth retrocession was offered: 10% of a one-year
NICO property loss contract with a maximum loss amount of $50 million. The annual
premium is 5% of the maximum possible loss. Then, in June, a sixth contract became
available.

Wes-FIC promptly accepted all of these six unusual super-cat reinsurance
participations offered by NICO.

In the first four contracts, in aggregate, Wes-FIC thus became exposed, during a
single year, to either winning about $4 million pre-tax or losing about $20 million
pre-tax. In addition, there is some slight possibility of a huge "long tail" loss for
Wes-FIC and NICO many years after the four contracts end, because a minority part
of the insurance is liability insurance written on an "occurrence" basis. This is not the
first time such "long tail" risks have been accepted by Wes-FIC. There are also, it
should be remembered, possibilities for unpleasant surprises involving similar possi-
ble large "long tail" losses, many years hence, from Wes-FIC's long-terminated
reinsurance arrangement with Fireman's Fund Group. Wes-FIC, now as then, is
willing to run such "long tail" risks, carefully weighed against prospects for gain,
provided it is much better capitalized than other insurance companies more influ-
enced by animal spirits and institutional momentums.

In the fifth super-cat retrocession to Wes-FIC from NICO, which covers only
property loss, there is no possibility of a surprising "long tail" loss. However, for the
year covered, Wes-FIC has a very small chance of losing $5 million pre-tax, while it
can gain only $250,000, less 3%, leaving Wes-FIC's net proceeds $242,500, pre-tax.

In the sixth retrocession from NICO, Wes-FIC is participating to the extent of 5%
in a $400 million contract with 20th Century Industries, a California insurer currently
attempting to recover from devastating effects of the Northridge, California earth-
quake. The amount of reinsurance under the contract (covering what is mostly
earthquake risk) is declining monthly over the term, expiring early in 1995, as 20th
5

Century withdraws from the homeowners and earthquake insurance markets in
California. Wes-FIC could earn a premium of approximately $1 million in 1995 under
the contract.

Needless to say, NICO does not believe that the average yearly loss to be
expected from writing over many years a great series of super-cat reinsurance
contracts like those it has retroceded in part to Wes-FIC would be as high as the one-
year premiums to be received. But such super-cat reinsurance, like other super-cat
reinsurance, is not for the faint of heart. A huge variation in annual results, with some
very unpleasant years, is inevitable.

But it is precisely what must, in the nature of things, be associated with these
bad possibilities, with their huge and embarrassing adverse consequences in occa-
sional years, that makes Wes-FIC like its way of being in the super-cat business.
Buyers (particularly wise buyers) of super-cat reinsurance often want to deal with
wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway subsidiaries (possessing as they do the highest
possible credit ratings and a reliable corporate personality) instead of other reinsur-
ers less cautious, straightforward and well endowed. And many competing sellers of
super-cat reinsurance are looking for a liberal "intermediary's" profit, hard to get
because they must find a "layoff" reinsurer both (1) so smart that it is sure to stay
strong enough to pay possible losses yet (2) so casual about costs that it is not much
bothered by a liberal profit earned by some intermediary entity not willing to retain
any significant risk. Thus the forces in place can rationally be expected to cause
acceptable long-term results for well-financed, disciplined decision makers, despite
horrible losses in some years and other years of restricted opportunity to write
business. And, again, we wish to repeat that we expect only acceptable long-term
results. We see no possibility for bonanza.

It should also be noted that Wes-FIC, in the arrangements recently made with
NICO, receives a special business-acquisition advantage from using Berkshire
Hathaway's general reputation. Under all the circumstances, a 3% ceding commis-
sion seems more than fair to Wes-FIC. Certainly and obviously, Berkshire Hathaway
would not offer terms so good to any other entity outside the Berkshire Hathaway
affiliated group.

Finally, we repeat an important disclosure about Wes-FIC's super-cat-reinsur-
ance-acquisition mechanics. It is impractical to have people in California make
complex accept-or-reject decisions for Wes-FIC when retrocessions of reinsurance
are offered by Berkshire Hathaway insurance subsidiaries. But, happily, the Berkshire
Hathaway insurance group executives making original business-acquisition decisions
are greatly admired and trusted by the writer and will be "eating their own cooking."
Under such circumstances, Wesco's and Wes-FIC's boards of directors, on the
writer's recommendation, have simply approved automatic retrocessions of reinsur-
ance to Wes-FIC as offered by one or more wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway
subsidiaries. Each retrocession is to be accepted forthwith in writing in Nebraska by
agents of Wes-FIC who are at the same time salaried employees of wholly owned
subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway. Moreover, each retrocession will be made at a

6

3%-of-premiums ceding commission. Finally, two conditions must be satisfied:
(1) Wes-FIC must get 20% or less of the risk (before taking into account effects from
the ceding commission) and (2) wholly owned Berkshire Hathaway subsidiaries
must retain at least 80% of the identical risk (again, without taking into account
effects from the ceding commission).

We will not ordinarily describe individual super-cat reinsurance contracts in full
detail to Wesco shareholders. That would be contrary to our competitive interest.
Instead, we will try to summarize reasonably, more or less as we have done here.

Will more reinsurance be later available to Wes-FIC through Berkshire
Hathaway subsidiaries on the basis and using the automatic procedure we have
above described? Well, we have often proved poor prognosticators. We can only say
that we hope so and that more reinsurance should come, albeit irregularly and with
long intermissions, if buyers of super-cat coverage are rational.

We continue to examine other possible insurance-writing opportunities, and
also insurance company acquisitions, not involving Berkshire Hathaway.

Wes-FIC is now a very strong insurance company, with very low costs, and, one
way or another, in the future as in the past, we expect to continue to find and seize at
least a few sensible insurance opportunities.

On super-cat reinsurance accepted by Wes-FIC to date (March 9, 1995) there
has been no loss whatsoever that we know of. However, no underwriting profit
flowed through Wesco's books in 1994 because none of its super-cat contracts
expired in 1994, and our accounting policy requires contract expiration before
super-cat underwriting profit is recognized. Needless to say, we would not have
similar reticence to report losses before contract expirations. Our super-cat account-
ing policy is not irrationally super-conservative, although it may amount to "best-
practice" accounting.

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income

All other "normal" net operating income, net of interest paid and general
corporate expenses, decreased to $177,000 in 1994 from $3,301,000 in 1993.
Sources were (1) rents ($3,050,000 gross) from Wesco's Pasadena office property
(leased almost entirely to outsiders and with CENFED as the ground floor tenant),
and (2) interest and dividends from cash equivalents and marketable securities held
outside the insurance subsidiary, mostly offset in 1994 by certain costs and expenses
that had not previously been charged against this category namely, the costs and
expenses of liquidating the delinquent loans and foreclosed real estate, including
additions to loss reserves, that in prior years had been charged against Mutual
Savings. The 1994 figure also includes an intercompany charge for interest expense
($826,000 after taxes) on borrowings from Wes-FIC made late in 1993 principally to
facilitate the transfer of loans and foreclosed properties to MS Property. This
intercompany interest expense does not affect Wesco's consolidated net income
7

inasmuch as the same amount is included as interest income in Wes-FIC's normal net
operating income.

Net Securities Gains and Losses
Wesco's earnings in 1994 contain securities gains of $163,000, after income
taxes, and also reflect the after-tax effect of a writedown of an investment in
preferred stock of USAir Group, Inc. by $5,850,000, described in the section
Convertible Preferred Stockholdings below. Earnings for 1993 include securities
gains of $1,156,000, after income taxes.

Convertible Preferred Stockholdings
At the end of 1994, Wesco and its subsidiaries owned $135 million, at original
cost, in convertible preferred stocks, all requiring redemption at par value within ten
years or so from date of acquisition.

The investments are carried on Wesco's consolidated balance sheet at fair
market value and, with the exception of the investment in preferred stock of USAir
Group, Inc. ("USAir"), any differences between historical cost and market value are
included in shareholders' equity, net of income tax effect, without affecting reported
net income, according to accounting convention. The investment in USAir, however,
was written down to fair market value effective at 1994 yearend, and the resulting
$5.9 million after-tax loss on the writedown, is shown as a separate charge on
Wesco's accompanying 1994 statement of income. Following is a summary of these
investments:

Preferred
Dividend
Par Value
of
Security
Rate
Holding
Conversion Price
at Which Par
Value May Be
Exchanged for
Common Stock
12/31/94
Market Price
of Common
Stock on
12/31/94
Yearend
Carrying
Value of
Holding
Salomon Inc
9.00%
$100 Million
$38.00
$37.50
$ 105 Million
USAir Group, Inc.
9.25%
12 Million
38.74
4.25
3 Million
Champion International
Corporation
9.25%
23 Million
38.00
36.50
24.2 Million
These preferred stocks were purchased at the same time Wesco's parent
corporation, Berkshire Hathaway, purchased additional amounts of the same stocks
at the same price per share.

In previous years we noted that "few, if any, investors have ever prospered
mightily from investing in convertible preferred stocks of leading corporations." Our
three holdings at yearend 1994 appear to bear this out. We estimate that (1) our
$100 million Salomon holding was worth about 5% more than we paid for it, and
(2) our $23 million Champion holding was worth about 5% more than we paid for it.
These figures when combined created $6.2 million in pre-tax appreciation, versus the
$9 million pre-tax loss just recorded on our investment in USAir. Readers should bear
in mind, however, that Wesco's experience to date has been good in an investment
in convertible preferred stock of The Gillette Company, made in 1989 at cost of
$40 million, and converted into Gillette common stock in 1991. This investment is

8

carried at a $119.8 million yearend market value in Wesco's consolidated 1994
balance sheet, $79.8 million higher than the investment cost. However, even with
the good Gillette experience factored in, our overall investment returns from
convertible preferred stockholdings have been unexciting, just as we have predicted.

New America Electrical Corporation ("New America Electric")

It was not just Wesco's savings and loan privileges that left our corporate fold in
1993. New America Electric, of which Wesco has owned about 80% since 1988, sold
its business in 1993 to a long-established and high-quality Midwestern firm engaged
in similar businesses. During 1993, Wesco's share of net loss was $192,000 for the
six-month period preceding sale of the business, and Wesco realized an additional
after-tax loss of $1.6 million ($.23 per Wesco share) on final disposition of its
interest.

The sale decision was made entirely by Glen Mitchel, New America Electric's
CEO and 20% owner, who did not wish to wait for an eventual upturn in commercial
construction after years of enduring a worst-since-the-1930s business climate to
which he had adjusted through several painful downsizings. The bad timing of
Wesco in entering the electrical equipment field when it did was entirely the result of
misjudgment by the writer, caused by a strong, near-lifelong preference for predict-
ing relative consequences from business and human quality while not attempting to
predict business cycles.

Considering the very hostile business climate we later encountered, New
America Electric's business was always run extremely well by Glen Mitchel, and his
dedication and skill prevented us from losing much more than we did. The writer
caused Wesco's loss, not Glen Mitchel.

The foregoing comments were repeated verbatim from Wesco's 1993 report.
The writer, as a minority selling shareholder of New America Electric, realized his pro
rata share of profit made by all selling shareholders when Wesco bought 80% of New
America Electric in 1988 in a transaction approved by Warren Buffett, Berkshire
Hathaway's chairman, and non-Munger directors of Wesco, none of whom owned
any shares in New America Electric. Under these circumstances, it is only fitting that
the writer's nose be again publicly rubbed in the ensuing bad result for Wesco.

Consolidated Balance Sheet And Related Discussion

As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, Wesco increased its net
worth, as accountants compute it under their conventions, to $678.1 million at
yearend 1994, or about $95 per Wesco share, from $626.1 million at yearend 1993.

The $52 million increase in reported net worth in 1994 was the result of three
factors: (1) $36.5 million resulting from continued net appreciation of investments
after provision for future taxes on capital gains; (2) $12.0 million from retention of
1994 net income after deduction of dividends paid; (3) $3.5 million resulting from
our decision at the beginning of 1994 to conform our accounting for investments in
9

securities with fixed maturities to our accounting for marketable equity securities,
with the result that we now carry them on the consolidated balance sheet at market
value.

The foregoing $95-per-share book value approximates liquidation value assum-
ing that all Wesco's non-security assets would liquidate, after taxes, at book value.
Probably, this assumption is too conservative. But our computation of liquidation
value is unlikely to be too low by more than a couple of dollars per Wesco share,
because (1) the liquidation value of Wesco's consolidated real estate holdings
(where interesting potential now lies almost entirely in Wesco's equity in its office
property in Pasadena) is now far below its former high, and (2) unrealized
appreciation in other assets (primarily Precision Steel) cannot be large enough, in
relation to Wesco's overall size, to change very much the overall computation of
after-tax liquidating value.

Of course, so long as Wesco does not liquidate, and does not sell any
appreciated assets, it has, in effect, an interest-free "loan" from the government
equal to its deferred income taxes on unrealized gains, subtracted in determining its
net worth. This interest-free "loan" from the government is at this moment working
for Wesco shareholders and amounted to about $27 per Wesco share at yearend
1994.

However, some day, perhaps soon, major parts of the interest-free "loan" must
be paid as assets are sold. Therefore, Wesco's shareholders have no perpetual
advantage creating value for them of $27 per Wesco share. Instead, the present
value of Wesco's shareholders' advantage must logically be much lower than $27 per
Wesco share. In the writer's judgment, the value of Wesco's advantage from its
temporary, interest-free "loan" was probably about $9 per Wesco share at yearend
1994.

After the value of the advantage inhering in the interest-free "loan" is estimated,
a reasonable approximation can be made of Wesco's intrinsic value per share. This
approximation is made by simply adding (1) the value of the advantage from the
interest-free "loan" per Wesco share and (2) liquidating value per Wesco share.
Others may think differently, but the foregoing approach seems reasonable to the
writer as a way of estimating intrinsic value per Wesco share.

Thus, if the value of the advantage from the interest-free tax-deferral "loan"
present was $9 per Wesco share at yearend 1994, and after-tax liquidating value was
then about $95 per share (figures that seem plenty high to the writer), Wesco's
intrinsic value per share would become only about $104 per share at yearend 1994,
up 4% from intrinsic value as guessed in a similar calculation at the end of 1993.

And, finally, this reasonable-to-this-writer, $104-per-share figure for intrinsic per
share value of Wesco stock should be compared with the $115.12 per share price at
which Wesco stock was selling on December 31, 1994. This comparison indicates
that Wesco stock was then selling about 11% above intrinsic value.

10

Business and human quality in place at Wesco continues to be not nearly as
good, all factors considered, as that in place at Berkshire Hathaway. In this connec-
tion, it should be noted that the writer caused or helped cause not only Wesco's
New America Electric loss but also (1) what will now plainly turn out to be a bad
financial result, opportunity cost considered, from development of foreclosed
mostly-seaside land in the Montecito district of Santa Barbara and (2) some recent
losses from boom-time mortgage loans on residences. Wesco, under the writer's
leadership, has managed to be clobbered in three different ways by the California
real estate crash, albeit in categories employing a very small portion of Wesco's
assets.

Wesco is not an equally-good-but-smaller version of Berkshire Hathaway, better
because its small size makes growth easier. Instead, each dollar of book value at
Wesco continues plainly to provide much less intrinsic value than a similar dollar of
book value at Berkshire Hathaway.

All that said, we make no attempt to appraise relative attractiveness for invest-
ment of Wesco versus Berkshire Hathaway stock at present stock-market quotations.

On January 18, 1995 Wesco increased its regular dividend from 24½ cents per
share to 25½ cents per share, payable March 8, 1995, to shareholders of record as of
the close of business on February 8, 1995.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its
subsidiaries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As
usual, your careful attention is sought with respect to these items.

March 9, 1995

Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board

11