BECHO OR. ATION SERVICE
& RECEIVED
JAN 2 11986
BAITHERSBURG, MARYLAND
85 70 3297
WESCO
PASADEN
WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Annual Report 1984
Form 10-K Annual Report 1984

WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER 'TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:
Consolidated "normal" operating Income (i.e., before all unusual operating
income and all net gains from sales of securities) for the calendar year 1984 increased to
$10,060,000 ($1.42 er share) from $8,507,000 ($1.20 per share) in the previous year.

Consolidated net income (i.e., after unusual operating income and all net gains
from sales of securities), increased to $23,656,000 ($3.32 per share) from $10,553,000
($1.48 per share) in the previous year.

Despite the high numbers reported, 1984 was a so-so year in terms of real gain in
strength. While "normal" net operating income increased satisfactorily, total net
income was swollen in a major way only because of an unusual item of operating
income and the cashing in of some unrealized appreciation in marketable securities
which had occurred in earlier years.

Wesco has two major subsidiaries, Mutual Savings, in Pasadena, and Precision
Steel, headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty
metal products businesses. Consolidated net income for the two years just ended
breaks down as follows (in 000s except for per-share amounts)(1):

"Normal"
Nel Operating
Income of
Precision
Mutual
Steel
javings Businesses
$3,476
.49
3,046
.43
$2,034
29
1,622
.23
All Other
"Normal" Nel
Operating
Income(2)
$4,550
.64
3,839
.54
Gain from Unrealized
Appreciation in
Forward Commitment
of Mutual Savings
to Buy GNMA
Certificates
1-58
.06
Net Gains
on Sales of
Securities(3)
$13,138
1.84
2,046
28
Wesco
Consolidated
Net Income
$23,636
December 31, 1984
Per Wesco share
December 31, 1983
Per Wesco share
(1) All figures are net of income laxes.
3.32
10,553
1.48
(2) Alter deduction of interest and other corporate expenses. Income was from ownership of the Mutual Savings' headquarters
office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, and interest and dividend income from cash equivalents and marketable
securities owned outside the savings and loan subsidiary.
(3) Includes $1,080,000 ($.15 per share), which, under different accounting treatment, might have been both (1) shifted to a
different income category and (2) increased by $1,765,000 ($.25 per share), See "Unusual Income and Certain Accounting
Quirks in 1984 Reporting" below.

The foregoing breakdown (of the same aggregate earnings) differs somewhat from
that used in audited financial statements, which follow standard accounting convention
as interpreted from time to time by Wesco's outside auditor. The supplementary
breakdown of earnings is furnished because it is considered useful to shareholders.

Much of this letter is a word-for-word repeat of last year's letter with updated
numbers. The repetition of wording occurs because it is believed (1) that the duplicated
material remains correct and is worth repeating, and (2) that in Wesco's case any time
and money required to change wording would be better spent elsewhere.

1

Parsimony, however, does not wholly predominate. So much kidding occurred
concerning the 1960s automobiles in the old photograph of the Mutual Savings' build-
ing, which was used in last year's annual report to avoid incurring the cost of a new
photograph, that the purse has been opened a little. Shareholders comparing the new
photograph (on the inside front cover of this report) with the old will note that the trees
have grown a lot in the intervening years. Fortunately, so has the value of the building.
See the last section of this letter. The building, which works very well and attracts high
quality tenants regarded as friends, is a constant reminder of the good sense of Louis R.
Vincenti and Richard D. Aston, the Wesco executives responsible for its creation.

Mutual Savings

Mutual Savings' "normal" net operating income of $3,476,000 in 1984, represented
an increase of 14.1% from the $3,046,000 figure the previous year. In both years such
"normal" net operating income, while economically real and probably of at least
average quality as reported savings and loan industry incomes go, was below the top
quality possible because such earnings came entirely or partly from income tax savings
obtained through inclusion of Mutual Savings in the consolidated income tax return of a
parent corporation. Earnings so derived from income tax savings are not of the top
quality possible because they can be impaired by future changes in tax laws and have
less cushion in reserve against future adversity than earnings from ordinary operating
income on which income taxes have been paid in full in cash at the highest corporate
rate and are recoverable from the 1. R.S. in the event of future operating losses.

Separate balance sheets of Mutual Savings at yearend 1983 and 1984 are set forth at
the end of this annual report. They show (1) total savings accounts rising to $228 million
from $203 million the year before, (2) a very high ratio of shareholders' equity to savings
account liabilities (probably the highest for any mature U.S. savings and loan associa-
tion), (3) a substantial portion of savings account liabilities offset by cash equivalents and
marketable securities, and (4) a loan portfolio (mostly real estate mortgages) of about
$95 million at the end of 1984, down 11% from the $107 million at the end of 1983. The
loan portfolio at the end of 1984 bore a fixed average interest rate of only 7.63%,
probably the lowest for any U.S. savings and loan association and far below the average
interest rate which now must be paid to hold savings accounts.

The capital-rich, mortgage-loan-interest-rate-poor position of Mutual Savings
came from (1) success many years ago as a construction lender at above-average interest
rates, plus (2) sale in 1980 by Mutual Savings of all branch offices (except for one satellite
office in a major shopping center across the street from the Pasadena headquarters)
under terms where only the lowest-yielding mortgage loans from its large portfolio were
retained, plus (3) drastic curtailment by Mutual Savings of mortgage lending following
the sale of its branch offices, plus (4) profits in every recent year, no matter how high
interest rates went.

Mutual Savings has remained profitable because the adverse effects from its old
low yielding, fixed-rate mortgage loan portfolio are more than offset by favorable effects
from its large shareholders' equity and a tax-equivalent yield on its marketable securities
(utility preferred stocks, tax-exempt bonds and common stocks) considerably higher
than that prevailing on the mortgage loan portfolio of a typical savings and loan
association. The old low-yielding, fixed-rate mortgage loan portfolio has shrunk from
pay-backs at 9.8% per year over the last three years, and the shrinkage is expected to

2

continue at about the same rate. With portfolio shrinkage, loan credit quality problems
have been reduced to a meaningless trace, because the old mortgages have large real
estate equities supporting secured credit extended. And the foreclosed property on
hand (mostly 22 vacant, largely oceanfront, acres in Santa Barbara) over a long holding
period has plainly become worth considerably more than its $2 million balance sheet
carrying cost.

It should be noted, however, that Mutual Savings' total mortgage loan portfolio did
not, in substance as distinguished from accounting form, decrease in 1984 by the 11%
mentioned above, determined by comparing audited year end balance sheet totals for
loans. Mutual Savings has agreed to buy in 1986 U.S. Government guaranteed mortgage
equivalents (GNMA certificates) at a price of about $19 million and has pre-funded this
forward commitment by buying U.S. Treasury Notes maturing near the time the certifi-
cates will be purchased. After taking into account this forward commitment to purchase
GNMA certificates, Mutual Savings' total mortgage loan portfolio has, in substance,
increased by about 7% in 1984.

The 1984 increase in substance of mortgages owned reflects Mutual Savings'
intention to keep at least 60% of assets in mortgages or mortgage equivalents, exactly as
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board wisely exhorts the savings and loan industry to do if
it expects to remain under a regulatory system separate from that of banks. And as a
result of anticipated steady shrinkage through repayment of remaining old 7.63%
mortgages, combined with purchases of new mortgages or mortgage equivalents bear-
ing much higher interest rates, Mutual Savings expects in due course significantly to raise
the average rate of interest on the entire mortgage loan portfolio, thus improving
earnings so long as interest rates on savings accounts do not greatly increase. The GNMA
certificates purchased for 1986 delivery at a price of about $19 million are expected to
yield about 15% on such price, getting under way the process of "blending" the
mortgage loan portfolio yield to a higher average level.

Mutual Savings has adapted in its own way to the dramatic changes which have
occurred in recent years in interest rates and the regulatory structure of the banking and
savings and loan industries. At Mutual Savings, as well as the rest of the savings and loan
industry, the standard practice used to be to borrow short from savers while lending long
on fixed-rate mortgages, to have high financial leverage for shareholders' equity and to
grant mortgagors easy prepayment terms. The practice was profitable for decades but
always involved something like a "hurricane risk," and the equivalent of a hurricane
came in 1981-82 as interest rates rose to unprecedented levels and caused widespread
losses. Results were good for shareholders before 1981-82 only because interest rates
were stable or rose slowly as mortgage-loan portfolios steadily and rapidly expanded
under a regulatory structure which both fostered growth and protected operating
margins by requiring that on all insured savings accounts fixed rates be paid that were
slightly higher than the low rates specified for banks. Thus a small deposit-attracting rate
advantage over banks was given to savings and loan associations, while competitive
pressure was dampened for both types of institution.

Although interest rates have subsided from the 1981-82 peak, the low and slowly
changing interest rates of former years are plainly gone with the wind, as are the former
government-decreed limits on interest rate competition for savings accounts and the
favoritism for savings and loan associations over banks. But an agency of the U.S.
Government (C) continues to insure savings accounts in the savings and loan
3

industry, just as it did before. The result may well be bolder and bolder conduct by many
savings and loan associations. A sort of Gresham's law ("bad loan practice drives out
good") may take effect for fully competitive but deposit-insured institutions, through
increased copying by cautious institutions of whatever apparent-high-yield loan and
investment strategies seem to allow competitors to bid away their savings accounts and
yet report substantial earnings. I'so, if "bold conduct drives out conservative conduct,"
there eventually could be wide spread insolvencies caused by bold credit extensions
come to grief.

And if serious credit-quality troubles come to the savings and loan industry, they
will merely add to troubles from the borrowed-short, lent-long-at-fixed-rates problem,
which is far from completely removed, and which destroys shareholder wealth at
startling speed whenever interest rates are rising rapidly, even when the credit quality of
mortgagors or other borrowers is excellent.

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board, under its current Chairman Edwin R. Gray,
shares Wesco's concerns. Wesco approves its attempts by regulation and by "jaw-
boning" to limit follies to come from (1) sharing the U.S. Government's credit with
optimistic new entrants to the savings and loan business, often coming from the real
estate development and stock brokerage businesses, given ample scope to venture
under widened investment authority, and (2) high financial leverage throughout the
savings and loan industry, combined with continuing maturity misrnatch of fixed rate
assets and liabilities. Logic and history would suggest that Mr. Gray is right to pull on the
reins, but this is an unpopular task since many powerful activity-cravers feel the bit and
create political heat in opposition to even limited (and almost surely inadequate)
financial discipline which would protect the federal deposit-insurance system by
demanding a significant margin-of-safety factor in financial institutions, just as in
bridges. Wesco is not optimistic either that the present rules of the savings and loan
game will stand the test of time or that drastic changes in the rules will occur until huge
future trouble comes, sooner or later.

Developing a short-term operating plan for Mutual Savings which would sharply
increase its reported earnings next year would be a near-absolute cinch. For instance,
savings accounts could be expanded greatly by paying a high rate of interest on "jumbo"
deposits in $100,000 multiples, and proceeds plus cash equivalents on hand could be
placed in long-term mortgages at a substantial current interest spread while, in addition,
some origination fees could be "front-ended" into income. However, taking long-term
risks into account, it is much harder to find a sound operating plan. Money is the
ultimate fungible commodity. In the new order of things, an association is not only in a
tough, competitive, commodity-type business on the lending side but also finds that,
with decontrol of government-insured rates paid savers, every competitive association
has virtually unlimited credit to fund increased lending, by paying premiums over
interest rates generally prevailing on savings accounts. Under such conditions when all
risks are considered, including those created by that portion of competitors notivated
primarily by short-term effects, it is quite naturally difficult to earn over a long period an
attractive return on shareholders' equity. How could it be otherwise?

A few years ago, about the time Mutual Savings reacted to new conditions by
curtailing lending and financial leverage, most other associations decided instead to
keep lending aggressively but under new adjustable-rate mortgages under which some
portion (but far from all) of the interest-rate-fluctuation risk is shifted to the homeowner.

4

Despite widespread use of these new adjustable-rate mortgages, savings and loan
industry earnings remain dependent to a material extent, as they always were, on an
interest rate spread attributable to: (1) borrowing short while lending long, and/or (2)
making loans which can be priced high enough to provide a profit only because they
involve a very material credit risk, compared to the risk of owning government-backed
securities of comparable maturity.

Under present conditions of strong competition from bold competitors accom-
panied by high interest-rate-fluctuation risk, the result tends to be that each year of
reported attractive earnings in the savings and loan industry occurs only in the absence
of two now much more likely events: (1) sharply rising interest rates, and (2) widespread
credit losses. Thus, each good year reported is a lot like the year when a Texas hurricane
insurer reports satisfactory earnings because there have been no hurricanes. Mutual
Savings has a considerable share of this uncomfortable position and will continue to
have it. It has not yet developed a long-term operating strategy with which it is satisfied,
and it continues to seek one. Just as Mutual Savings has been idiosyncratic in the past as
it sold branch offices in 1980 (a practice since adopted to some extent by other savings
and loan associations and major banks), it will probably be idiosyncratic in the future. It
will seek some non-standard way of rendering socially constructive service while
operating with acceptable profits accompanied by an acceptable level of risk for
shareholders' capital, likely gains considered.

Eventually, by maintaining unusual capital strength and liquidity, and by having a
parent corporation which does likewise, Mutual Savings hopes to stand in particular
favor with federal and state regulatory authorities and be in a position soundly to expand
again, perhaps dramatically, and perhaps involving additional shareholder investment in
Mutual Savings by the parent corporation.

Recent growth in savings accounts, considered on an incremental-effects basis,
constitutes loss business, because Mutual Savings has incurred in interest and other
expense more than it has received from employing proceeds in short-term interest.
bearing investments far above regulatory requirements for liquidity. Moreover, some of
the attendant expense may not have hit the books. In due course (starting in 1985)
Mutual Savings, which with its large ratio of shareholders' equity to total liabilities
imposes a virtually zero risk on FSLIC (the U.S. agency waich insures safety of accounts
in savings and loan associations), will be required to pay to FSLIC extra insurance
premiums, based on Mutual Savings' gross size, to help fund FSLIC's protection of
account holders in other savings and loan associations finally recognized as insolvent, In
this process Mutual Savings, in effect, will retroactively pay extra interest-equivalent
expense by reason of having attracted new savings. Mutual Savings' position at the
moment is like that of a sober and careful automobile driver of 2000 miles per year,
disadvantaged by his limited activity, yet forced to pay mutualized, standardized insur-
ance premiums so long as he lives based on inclusion in a liability insurance pool (1)
which is composed almost entirely of much worse risks, (2) which contains a considera-
ble number of traveling salesmen previously convicted of drunk driving, and (3) which
discovers liabilities, partly through institutional design, long after their occurrence.
Deliberate growth in savings, under such conditions, reflects considerable optimism,
perhaps Micawberish, that Mutual Savings will eventually have better ideas and oppor-
tunities and that its officers (including the Chairman) will make fewer of the sort of
mistakes in which they participated in the past, leading to difficulties now decried,
5

The foregoing commerts, designed to communicate reality for Wesco share-
holders as it appears to Wesc o management, should not be taken as criticism of FSLIC
management. In recent years FSLIC management has bordered on heroic, considering
economic and legal changes, political pressures, extraordinary work burden, novel
problems and limited resources.

Precision Steel

Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, located in the outskirts of Chicago at Franklin
Park, Illinois, was acquired for approximately $15 million on February 28, 1979. The
price was roughly book value for a company which carried its inventories on a con-
servative LIFO accounting basis and which contained significant cash balances. More
important, it had reached its position from a modest beginning through maintenance of
sound, customer-oriented business values inculcated over a long time by a gifted
founder and his successors. Precision Steel owns a well-established steel service center
business and a subsidiary engaged in the manufacture and distribution of tool room
supplies and other specialty metal products.

Precision Steel's businesses contributed $2,034,000 to "normal" net operating
income in 1984, up 25% compared with $1,622,000 in 1983. Such a sharp increase in
1984 profit was not anticipated and was largely attributable to (1) increased sales (up
20% to $55,098,000) and (2) some favorable quantity-order prices on steel purchased.

Under the leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses are now quite
satisfactory, taking into account the financial leverage put into Wesco's consolidated
picture incident to their acquisition. The 1984 year could be a hard act to follow.

Shortly after Wesco's purchase of Precision Steel, a substantial physical expansion
of steel warehousing facilities was authorized, involving a new building in Charlotte,
North Carolina. The new building and the whole North Carolina operation are now very
successful, contributing $8,589,000 to sales in 1984 at a profit percentage higher than
has prevailed in the long-established Chicago headquarters' facility.

Precision Steel's businesses, despite their mundane nomenclature, are steps
advanced on the quality scale from mere commodity type businesses. Many customers
of Precision Steel, needing dependable supply on short notice of specialized grades of
high-quality, cold-rolled strip steel, reasonable prices, technical excellence in cutting to
order, and remembrance when supplies are short, rightly believe that they have no fully
comparable alternative in Precision Steel's market area. Indeed, many customers at
locations remote from Chicago and Charlotte (for instance, Los Angeles) seek out
Prision Steel's service.

Wesco remains interested in logical expansion of Precision Steel's businesses, using
liquid assets available,

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income

All other "normal" net operating income, net of interest paid and general corporate
expenses, rose to $4,550,000 in 1984 from $3,839,000 in 1983. Sources were (1) rents
($2,078,000 gross, excluding rent from Mutual Savings) from Wesco's Pasadena office
building block (predominantly leased to outsiders although Mutual Savings is the
ground floor tenant) and (2) interest and dividends from cash equivalents and
6

marketable securities held by Precision Steel and its subsidiaries and at the parent
company level.

Net Gains on Sales of Securities
Wesco's aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, after income taxes,
increased to $13,138,000 in 1984 from $2,046,000 in 1983. The large 1984 gains do not
indicate special acumen or good fortune in 1984. It merely happened that in 1984
unrealized appreciation occurring in previous years was cashed in.
A $1,080,000 portion of 1984 securities gains, if a different accounting treatment
had been used, would have been both: (1) shifted to a different income category and (2)
increased by $1,765,000. See next section.

Unusual Income and Certain Accounting Quirks in 1984 Reporting
Wesco's consolidated audited figures for net earnings contained in this Annual
Report are lower by $1,328,000 in aggregate ($.19 per share) with respect to the nine
months ended September 30, 1984, than the figures contained in Wesco's previously-
issued quarterly reports covering such nine months.
The downward restatement of earlier reported earnings occurred because, after
the close of the year, Wesco's outside auditor made an unanticipated interpretation of
generally accepted accounting principles applicable to an unusual business transaction.
The unusual business transaction was cash paid by General Foods for transfer of
General Foods' stock from Wesco to General Foods under a written arrangement with
General Foods, specifying intention to create an exact dividend-equivalent, which kept
Wesco's percentage ownership of General Foods the same at all times. Under such
circumstances, income tax law quite naturally treats all proceeds of the in-form "sale" of
General Foods stock as a dividend, which is the I.R.S. view as well as Wesco's view of the
underlying economic substance. last year, in a virtually identical case, Wesco's outside
auditor approved, for the consolidated group of which Wesco is a part, financial
statements including accounting treatment in conformity with in-substance dividend
reporting to the I.R.S. and Wesco's 1984 quarterly reports of earnings followed this
precedent with no objection. But, after much deliberation, the outside auditor's opinion
early in 1985 came down in favor of treating the 1984 transactions with General Foods as
sales instead of dividend-equivalents, except that income tax provision continued to be
computed on the in-substance dividend basis.
From the Wesco shareholders' vantage point the result from the outside auditing
decision made is that the error, if any, existing in the audited accounts by reason of the
Wesco-auditor disagreement is now on the side of underreporting income. Wesco's
audited net income for the full year 1984 is now lower by $1,765,000 ($.25 per share)
than would have been reported if all proceeds of the 1984 business transaction with
General Foods had been reported as unusual dividends or dividend-equivalents, fa!-
lowing Wesco's view of substance. Either way, any income from the Wesco-General
Foods business transaction is reported as "unusual" or from an irregular source
(securities gains), and, either way, the 1984 year end balance sheet is exactly the same,
except that in one case (Wesco's view) the after-tax balance sheet carrying cost would
have been $1,765,000 higher fan identical number of General Foods' shares owned,
with the $1,765,000 increase augmenting book net worth of Wesco.

7

While Wesco disagrees with its outside auditor on the accounting issue, Wesco can
find something to applaud in (1) a de-emphasis of year-to-year consistency in search for
an answer best in the auditor's latest view and (2) an auditor's favoring of a decision,
where it has any doubt, which may err on the side of under-reporting income, consider-
inga common tendency of corporate clients to favor decisions in the opposite direction.
Were Wesco running a national accounting partnership it would want a system
where a high-ranked partner, free of business-retaining pressure, could revers: account-
ing decisions urged by field partners, so Wesco can hardly complain about the inconsis-
tent messages from an audit-management system which forced Wesco in 1984 to
change at year end quarterly income figures earlier reported. However, in this murky
case, where we happen to know that one of the country's most eminent accountants
agrees with the Wesco view, we must admit to minor irritation with the fates. Wesco
makes special effort aimed at high-quality reporting to shareholders. (For instance, only
with respect to competitively proprietary information, such as transactions in marketa-
ble securities, does Wesco consciously keep communication with shareholders to the
legal minimum.) Thus when the audit quality-control system of its outside C.P.A. firm
selects Wesco for forced restatement of numbers previously given shareholders, we feel
much as if we were a duty-obsessed engineering student al Brigham Young University,
accidentally tear-gassed by the national guard in a necessary program to control campus
unrest.

The subject of this restatement of a small part of Wesco's earnings is covered at
length here only because, much more often than not, it is a bad sign for shareholders
when a full year-end audit decreases income reported as earned in previous quarterly
reports. A full explanation is therefore appropriate.

The inconsistency between quarterly and final income figures is not the only
accounting quirk in Wesco's audited 1984 financial statements. It seems odd, as high-
lighted above in the unconventional breakdown of earnings, that unrealized apprecia-
tion of $458,000 in a forward commitment to buy mortgage-equivalents was taken into
Mutual Savings' income in 1984, which happened because the commitment was made
in a futures market on a commodities exchange. A forward commitment to buy the same
mortgage equivalents, made in some other manner, for instance by simple contract,
would not, under the applicable accounting rules, result in the same unrealized appre-
ciation's being reported as income. And, even though the unrealized appreciation is
recognized as income in the 1984 earnings statement, shareholders must look deep into
a footnote to the audited 1984 financial statements to find the only reference to the
mortgage equivalents which produced the appreciation. The balance sheet standing
alone discloses only short-term investments (U.S. Treasury Notes in this instance) the
proceeds of which will be used in 1986 to close the forward commitment to buy the
mortgage equivalents,

It also seems odd, in view of the substantial additional costs FSLIC membership will
in the near future impose on Mutual Savings, that prepaid FSLIC premiums amounting to
$3,146,000 are included in the audited consolidated balance sheet, without offset for
anticopated new cost of sharing FSI IC liabilities. We do not object to the accounting
convention at work. All complexities and interests considered, the accounting profes.
sion is doing all right by the civilization; the FSLIC relationship has long been a valuable
asset in the savings and loan industry, with its mutualized nature of no practical adverse
consequence; and both accounting and public-policy considerations disfavor quick
invention of new accounting convention to anticipate in current financial statements
future increases in burden from FSLIC membership by reason of facts already known.
8

But quirks (at least as diagnosed by Wesco) required (probably wisely, on balance)
by accounting convention, do contribute to causing Wesco to break down and discuss
its earnings unconventionally in its management letter and also to call shareholders'
attention to audit footnotes. The use of both footnotes and letter is needed for a best-
feasible understanding of economic reality as it appears to Wesco management.

It is recognized, of course, by most certified public accountants as well as by Wesco
that audited statements alone, unless accompanied by a letter giving management's
view of economic reality where inconsistent with the image created by accounting
convention, is an improperly incomplete form of annual communication with, corporate
owners. There is a limit to the communication which properly standardized accounting
can create, and Wesco's outside auditors (and its parent companies' auditors) over the
years have been quite supportive of Wesco's approach to expanding numerate com-
munication in the management letter, even though outside auditing jurisdiction.

Written arrangements creating the issue of unusual dividend-equivalent income, of
the type which caused reporting quirks in 1984 as a result of transactions with General
Foods, can hardly be expected to be made year after vear. However, Wesco does
anticipate, based on an agreement already signed, that in 1985 more of the same sort of
transactions will occur with General Foods, probably somewhat smaller in aggregate
amount than in 1984.

Consolidated Balance Sheet and Related Discussion

Wesco's consolidated balance sheet (1) retains a strength befitting a company
whose consolidated net worth supports large outstanding promises to others and (2)
reflects a continuing failure to acquire additional businesses because none are found
available, despite constant search, at prices deemed rational when the interest of Wesco
shareholders is taken into account.

As indicated in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements, the aggregate
market value of Wesco's marketable equity securities was higher than their aggregate
cost at December 31, 1984 by about $13 million, down sharply from about $29 million
one year earlier.

Wesco's Pasadena office building block (containing about 165,000 net rentable
square feet including Mutual Savings' space) has a market value substantially in excess of
carrying value, demonstrated by (1) mortgage debt ($5,182,000 at 9.25% fixed) against
this real property now exceeding ils depreciated carrying value ($3,069,000) เท Wesco's
balance sheet at December 31, 1984, and (2) substantial current net cash flow to Wesco
after debt service on the mortgage.

Wesco remains in a prudent position when total debt is compared to total share.
holders' equity and total liquid assets. Wesco's practice has been to do a certain amount
of long term borrowing in advance of specific need, in order to have maximum financial
flexibility to face both hazards and opportunities.

It is expected that the balance sheet strength of the consolidated enterprise will in
due course be used in one or more business extensions. The extension activity, however,
requires some patience, as suitable opportunities are not always present.

As indicated in Schedule I accompanying Wesco's financial statements, common
stock investments, both those in the savings and loan subsidiary and those held
temporarily elsewhere pending sale to fund business extension, tend to be concen-
trated in a very few companies. Through this concentration practice better understand-
ing is sought with respect to the few decisions made.

The ratio of Wesco's annual reported consolidated net income to reported consoli-
dated shareholders' equity, about 13% in 1982-84, (1) was dependent to a considerable
extent on securities gains, irregular by nature, and (2) nonetheless leaves something to
be desired from the Wesco shareholders' point of view. Wesco began life as a savings
and loan holding company in what became a very tough industry in which the real
value, as distinguished from the reported book value, of most shareholders' equity
became impaired, particularly in. 1981-82. Dainaged along with the rest of its industry,
Wesco has been proceeding slowly under shortened sail, while it assesses damage and
repairs the ship, instead of trying to make fast time by getting all canvas aloft. However,
progress ultimately helpful to shareholders has not been restricted to what has shown
up neatly in the income account cove: ing this period. Increases over recent years in both
(1) aggregate reported shareholders' equity and (2) the percentage of such equity
outside Wesco's, savings and loan segment are expected to be useful in the future.

On January 24, 1985, Wesco increased its regular quarterly dividend from 14%
cents per share to 15½ cents per share, payable March 7, 1985 to shareholders of record
as of the close of business on February 19, 1985.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its subsidi-
aries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As usual, your
careful attention is sought with respect to these items.

February 12, 1985
10
Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board
DH