W 342000
86739
12.31.85
BY
APD 1 1985
WESCO
CASADEN
WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Annual Report 1985
Form 10-K Annual Report 1985

WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:
Consolidated "normal" operating income (i.e., before all unusual operating
income and all net gains from sales of securities) for the calendar year 1985 decreased to
$8,347,000 ($1.17 per share) from $10,060,000 ($1.42 per share) in the previous year.

Consolidated net income (i.e., after unusual operating income and all net gains
from sales of securities) increased to $51,541,000 ($7.24 per share) from $23,656,000
($3.32 per share) in the previous year.

A highly unusual capitai gain, of a not-likely-to-recur type, from disposition of
General Foods stock caused most of the net income in 1985. The table below gives
particulars.

Wesco has three major subsidiaries, Mutual Savings, in Pasarlena, Precision Steel,
headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty metal
products businesses, and Wesco-Financial Insurance Company, headquartered in
Omaha and currently engaged in the reinsurance husiness. Consolidated net income
for the two years just ended breaks down as follows (in 000s except for per-share
amounts):

Year Ended
December 31 1985 December 31, 1984
Amount
Per
Wesco
Share
Fer
Amount
Wesco
Share
"Normal" net operating income (loss) of:
Mutual Savings ..................................$ 3,342 $ 47 $ 3,476 $.49
Precision Steel businesses ........................ 2,010 .28 2,034
.29
Wesco Financial insurance busines
Underwriting ..................................... (1,584) (.22)
Investment activity ............................. 1,225
.17
(359) (.05)

All other "normal" net operating income" .............3,354
.47
4,550 .64
8,347
1.17
10,060
1,42
Fluctuation in market value of GNMA futures contract ..1,671
.24
458
.06
Net gains on sales of securities" ..................41,523
5...3
13,138
.1.84
Wesco consolidated net income ........................$51,541 $7.224 $23,656 $3.32
::
(1) All figures are net or mono lasus
12) After deduction of interest and other corporate spss Income was from ownership of the Mutual savings headquarters
offa e building, primarily leaseed to consule tears and interest and des clenchincome for achegusatents and metable
eurotus owned outside the sayings and loan rad msu ne subschares
The 1985 nguren lurdes a $ 14, 1630001154.83 per share gam reahzod hs Weste par sale ofis Generalfoods Corporation
common stuck to Play Monts Compans monnetrony th the latters abh is announced tender otter see Nel Gains on
Sale Seconges below

This supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in
audited financial statements which follow standard accounting convention. The supple.
mentary breakdown is furnished because it is considered useful to shereholders.

1

Mutual Savings
Mutual Savings" "normal" net operating income of $3,3-42,000 in 1985 represented
a decrease of 4% from the $3,476,000 figure the previous year.

Separate balance sheets of Mutual Savirıgs at yearend 1984 and 1985 are set forth at
the end of this annual report. They show (1) total savings accounts rising to $269 million
from $228 million the year before, (2) a very high ratio of shareholders' equity to savings
account liabilities (probably the highest for any mature U.S. savings and loan associa-
tion), (3) a substantial portion of savings account liabilities offset by cash equivalents and
marketable securities, (4) a loan portfolio (mostly real estate mortgages) of about $83
million at the end of 1985, down 12% from the $95 million at the end of 1984, and (5)
favorable effects of securities gains and other unusual gains and fluctuations, which
caused net worth to decline only $4 million in 1985 despite payment of a dividend of
$14 million to the parent corporation.

The loan portfolio at the end of 1985, although containing almost no risk of loss
from defaults, bore a fixed average interest rate of only 7.60%, probably the lowest for
arny U.S. savings and loan association and far below the average interest rate which now
must be paid to hold savings accounts. However, as the loan payoff pace intensified arıd
interest rates declined sharply in 1985, the unrealized depreciation in the loan portfolio
became approximately offset by unrealized appreciation in Mutual Savings' interest-
bearing securities and preferred stocks.

As pointed out in footnote 13 to the accompanying financial statements, the book
value of Wesco's equity in Mutual Savings ($57.6 million at December 31, 1985) over-
states the amount realizable, after taxes, from sale or liquidation at book value. If all
Mutual Savings' assets, net of liabilities, were to be sold, even pursuant to a plan of
complete liquidation, for the $57.6 million in book value reported under applicable
accounting convention, the parent corporation would receive much less than $57.6
million after substantial income taxation imposed because about $47 million of what is
designated shareholders' equity for accounting purposes is considered bad debt
reserves for most tax purposes.

There is, however, a buried plus value in Mutual Savings. The foreclosed property
on hand (mostly 22 largely oceanfront acres in Santa Barbara) has become worth over a
long holding period much more than its $1.5 million balance sheet carrying cost.
Reasonable, community-sensitive development of this property has been delayed over
10 years in the course of administration of land-use laws. But we are optimistic that an
end to the delay is near and that the Santa Barbara and Montecito communities will be
very pleased with the development ow likely to go forward. This development will
contain 32 houses interspersed with large open areas. Mutual Savings plans to make the
development first rate in every respect, and unique in the quality of its landscaping.

Balancing all merits and demerits, Mutual Savings, as it has been managed under
present conditions by the writer and others, is no jewel of a business from the share-
holders' point of view. Mutual Savings' good points are: (1) high asset quality and sound
balance sheet; (2) a maturity match cfinterest-bearing assets and liabilities which makes
risk of insolvency near zero, whatever happens to interest rates; and (3) a deserved
reputation for high quality service to account holders, achieved at below-average cost
to the institution in an efficient one-large-office operation, as distinguished from a

2

many-small-branch-offices operation. Mutual Savings' bad points are: (1) all recent
growth in savings accounts, considered on an incremental effects basis, has been joss
business because interest and other costs incurred exceed income obtained by employ-
ing proceeds in short-term interest-bearing assets; (2) a burdensome position under the
FSLIC account-insurance system causes payments of ever-higher armou. ts into the
system to help bail out more venturesome savings and loan associations which become
insolvent, with the payments being required despite the fact that Mutual Savings
imposes almost no risk on FSLIC; (3) "normal" net operating income is below an
acceptable rate of return on present book value of shareholders' equity, with such return
reaching an acceptable level over recent years only with help from securities gains and
other unusual items; (4) it would not be easy to leave the savings and loan business,
should this course of action ever be desired, without a large income tax burden of a type
not applied to corporations other than savings and loan associations; (5) the regulatory
structure of the savings and loan business creates a competitive situation in which it is
hard to make respectable profits through careful operations; and (6) management has
not yet found an acceptable remedy for any of the previously isted bad points, despite
years of trying.

Moreover, comparisons of post-1984 financial results for Mutual Savings with
results for many other and more typical savings and loan associations in California leave
Mutual Savings looking inferior, to put it mildly. As interest rates went down these other
associations, which have greater financial leverage and operated less fearfully than
Mutual Savings during former high-interest periods, came to have loan and investment
portfolios which (1) now are worth more on average than book value and (2) now
produce a high return on book value of shareholders' equity, after deduction of
operating expenses and interest to account holders at presen: rates Any Wesco share-
holder who thinks Mutual Savings has any expertise in predicting and profiting from
interest rate changes can look at the 1985 record and despair.

Despite the fact that some other savings and loan associations did much better after
1984 than Mutual Savings, and are now much better poised to report good figures for
1986, we plan to continue operating only in ways acceptable in our own judgment,
anticipating as a consequence widely fluctuating and sometimes inadequate returns. In
the future, however, Mutual Savings will make and purchase more loans. Now that
Mutual Savings' old mortgage loans have declined in amount and increased in market
value (the market value increase being caused both by a decline in generally prevailing
interest rates and by a shortening of remaining loan life), new loans will be added as
seems wise, with a target that 60% of assets be in housing-related loans. The first new
direct loan in some time, an adjustable rate mortgage with no cap on future interest rate
changes but with an extremely low "spread" for the lender, will shortly be closed. We
are not at all excited by our prospects as we now make housing loans of this type, but we
wish to get some renewal of direct mortgage lending under way.

With assets not employed in direct real-estate lending, Mutual Savings continues
not only to make payments to FSLIC far in excess of fair charges for risks imposed on
FSLIC but also to employ a large part of total assets in short-term loans to the Federal
Home Loan Bank. These practices are pro-social but will continue to reduce profits.

Mutual Savings also continues to support the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in its
efforts to change the present rules of the savings and loan business to augment average

3

soundness of FSLIC-insured associations. We retain our opinion that the present rules,
despite some improvement in 1985 through wise efforts of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, are unsound, from the country's point of view. Too much latitude is allowed
financial "swingers" to grow as they gamble, through u e of account guarantees from
FSLIC, an agency of the U.S. Government, while they offer whatever it takes in interest
rates to attract more accounts.

With money being the ultimate fungible commodity, it seems to us that the rules
create a super-competitive, commodity-type business, in which (1) economic law
probably destines most careful associations, like other fungible-commodity dealers, to
realize very modest returns on shareholders' equity over extended time periods, yet (2)
good financial results can nonetheless usually be reported in each near-term period by
managers-in-charge through aggressive deposit-expanding, lending and investing mea-
sures which increase risk, while (3) the importance and rewards of managers, who
usually have little downside risk as owners, are tied mostly to institutional size and
recently reported numbers. With managers mostly being non-owners, a sort of
Gresham's law of competitive-yet-deposit-insured banking, "bad loans drive out good,"
tends to work with extra force as managers fear being left out of whatever activity allows
competing managers to report high profits while bidding high for deposits. We see no
reason for assuming that ethical, intelligent managers in the savings and loan industry are
immune from effects similar to those which caused similar managers of all major U.S.
banks to place significant portions of assets in now-regretted foreign loans, rather than
stand apart from the crowd. If our diagnosis is correct, a lot of serious trouble lies ahead
(perhaps far ahead) for U.S. savings and loan associations.

While present rules and practices have a positive side in causing satisfaction of
almost 100% of demand for those housing loans which are sound at the prevailing
interest rate, this accomplishment is accompanied by much unsound housing and other
lending and by much unsound investment in "junk bonds" and other assets unsuitable
for highly leveraged, federally insured, deposit-taking institutions. The system design in
place would probably be a flunking design in an engineering course, where the empha.
sis would be on preserving the integrity of an essential system by a margin of safety, by
being content with rules which (1) caused satisfaction of, say, only 95% of requests for
sound credit extension and (2) forced more conservative conduct on banks and savings
and loan associations.

The present design, we think, would probably also be a flunking design in a surgery
course, where the wise practice is to remove sonie healthy cells along with cancerous
cells, based on margin-of-safety principles. We hope we are wrong about the present
design of the savings and loan system, but we fear increased, widespread adversity,
ultimately reaching housing borrowers and would-be housing borrowers, whose inter-
ests we consider important. Any such adversity would probably be followed by changes
in the rules. No doubt, our judgment as to the probable temporary nature of present
savings and loan industry structure and practices has helped deter us from direct lending
of a conventional sort which otherwise would have occurred. Our attitude, right or
wrong, during recent tumultuous changes in the savings and loan industry, has been
roughly that of the French grandfather who replied when asked what he did in the great
revolution: "I got through." We also think something good could eventually happen to
Mutual Savings because future trouble in the savings and loan business may create
opportunities worth seizing.

Precision Steel
Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, located in the outskirts of Chicago at Franklin
Park, Illinois, was acquired for approximately $15 million on February 28, 1979. The
price was roughly book value for a company which carried its inventories on a con-
servative LIFO accounting basis and which contained significant cash balances. More
important, the company had reached its position from a modest beginning through
maintenance of sound, customer-oriented business values inculcated over a long time
by a gifted founder and his successors. Precision Steel owns a well-established steel
service center business and a subsidiary engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
tool roo'n supplies and other specialty metal products.

Precision Steel's businesses contributed $2,010,000 to "normal" net operating
income in 1985, down 1% compared with $2,034,000 in 1984. Such a modest decrease
in 1985 roofit was achieved in spite of decreased sales (down 7% to $51,124,000).

Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses are
now quite satisfactory, taking into account the financial leverage put into Wesco's
consolidated picture incident to their acquisition.

Shortly after Wesco's purchase of Precision Steel, a substantial physical expansion
of steel warehousing facilities was authorized, involving a new building in Charlotte,
North Carolina. The new building and the whole North Carolina operation are now very
successful, contributing $9,140,000 to 1985 sales at a profit margin higher than has
prevailed in the long-establised Chicago headquarters' facility.

Precision Steel's businesses, despite their mundane nomenclature, are steps
advanced on the quality scale from mere commodity-type businesses. Many customers
of Precision Steel, needing dependabit supply un short notice of specialized grades of
high-quality, cold-rolled strip steel, reasonable prices, technical excellence in cutting to
order, and remembrance when supplies are short, rightly believe that they have no fully
con parable alternative in Precision Steel's market area. Indeed, many customers at
locations remote from Chicago and Charlotte (for instance, Los Angeles) seek out
Precision Steel's service.

Wesco remains interested in logical expansion of Precision Steel's businesses, using
available liquida, sets.

Wesco-Financial Insurance Company
A new business was added to the West o group in 1985, in co-venture with West's
800% owner and ultimate parent corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

With the enthusiastic approval of all West o's citrer tors, including substantial Wesco
shareholders in the Peters and (aspers tamilies, without whose approval such action
would net have been taken, West o invested $-45,000,000 cash equivalents in a newly
organized, wholly owned, Nebraska-e hartered insurance company, Wesco-Financial
Insurance Company ("Wes FIC").

The new subsidiary Wes FIC, then reinsured, through another Berkshire Hathaway
Insurance company subsidiary as intermediary without profit 20s of the entire book of
insurance e business of the long established foreman's Fund (orp disted on the NYSE

5

Wes-FIC thereby assumed the benefits and burdens of Fireman's Fund's prices, costs
and losses under a coritract covering all insurance premiums earned by Fireman's Fund
during a four-year period commencing September 1, 1985. The a. rangement puts Wes-
FIC in almost exactly the position it would have been in if it, instead of Fireman's Fund,
had directly written 2% of the business. Differences in results should occur only from
the investment side of insurance, as VVes-FIC, instead of Fireman's Fund, invests funds
from "float" generated. Wes-FIC's share of premiums earned in 1986 is expected to be
over $60 million.

Wes-FIC's separate financial statements, covering the brief period of its existence,
September 1, 1985, to December 31, 1985, are included on pages 29 and 30 of this
Annual Report, and show that Wes-FIC experienced a small 1985 reduction in net
worth, from $45,000,000 to $44,676,000.

We do not consider this four-month result to have significant predictive value with
respect to the future. The price of insurance is rising, with price increases not yet fully
reflected in 1985 numbers. Moreover, the financial statements are of questionable
accuracy and could be wrong in either direction. It is in the nature of even the finest
casualty insurance businesses that in keeping their accounts they must estimate and
deduct all future costs and losses from premiums already earned. Uncertainties inherent
in this undertaking make financial statemerits more mere "best honest guesses" than is
typically the case with accounts of non-insurance-writing corporations. And the rein-
surance portion of the casualty insurance business, because it contains one or more
extra links in the loss-reporting chain, usually creates more accounting uncertainty than
the non-reinsurance portion. Finally, Wes-FIC's initial financial statements have a disad-
vantage in that the period covered is short, making any use of the reported past cost-
price ratio extra dubious as an indicator of any probable future cost-price ratio, due to
the small size of the sample forming a base for projection.

It is entirely too soon to forecast future results for Wes-FIC, but Wesco hopes for: (1)
a reasonable return on its investment over the four years of the Fireman's Fund rein-
surance contract, and (2) possible future reinsurance contracts with other insurers.

Wesco has high regard for John Byrne, newly appointed CEO and also a large
shareholder and stock-option holder of Fireman's Fund. Mr. Byrne was an outstanding
insurance company manager in his previous position as CEO of GEICO CORPORA-
TION (38%-owned, but not controlled, by Berkshire Hathaway), which improved
enormously during his stewardship. Fireman's Fund's insurance business is intrinsically
more cyclical and less-advantaged than GEICO's core insurante business, which has
lower distribution costs trom a different, "direct writing" distribution system. Thus
Firemans Fund's business will almost surely be much more difficult to improve perma-
nently than was the case at GIO, However, Mr. Byrne and other Fireman's Fund
executives know all this very well, and, with emprovement less spectacular than previous
improvement at Gil Ofareman's Fund and Wes FIt could both prosper.

Industry-wide conditions, as well as managerial excellence, atteet Wes-FIt's pros-
pects under the reinsurance contract with Fireman's Fund. Large premium increases
now going into effect throughout the casualty insurance business could provide some
welcome tailwind efforts instead of the headwind effects of the period just der
which was one of the worst in history

We are pleased with our relationship with Fireman's Fund, which has a long and
distinguished record, going all the way back to superb performance after the great San
Francisco earthquake and fire, and which is affiliated with the even longer established
American Express Company, one of the premier corporations in the United States.

However, Wesco's optimism about quality of Fireman's Fund, quality of this rein-
surance contract, and possible short-term, industry-wide cyclical improvement, is tem-
pered by a larger and longer view of the reinsurance business. That business has the
defect of being too attractive-looking to new entrants for its own good and therefore will
always tend to be more or less the opposite of, say, the old business of gathering and
rendering dead horses, which tended to contain few and prosperous participants.

Troubles, losses, and insolvencies can come fast as the apparent attractions of the
reinsurance business, including its seductive receive-pay-in-advance aspects, lure new
entrants and encourage expansions by old occupants. The business was a disaster area
in recent years, adversely affected by prices which would have been too low in a stable
world, plus inflation, new judicial notions tending to augment insurance coverage
beyond limits contemplated when policies were issued, and not-minor degradation of
commercial behavior.

No doubt recent cornmercial behavior degradation, particularly noticeable in the
reinsurance business on both sides of the purchase counter, was accelerated by general
hardship, demonstrating once again the wisdom of Poor Richard's Almanac: "It is hard
for an empty sack to stand upright."

Insurance company subsidiaries of Wesco's parent corporation, Berkshire
Hathaway, long active in reinsurance, did continue proper commercial behavior during
the recent period of industry-wide problems, but financial results from reinsurance were
terrible. Thus Wesco shareholder- are being led not only into an extra-hazardous place
but also by people who met severe reverses on the last trip.

Is there any reasonable hope for Wesco shareholders that its reinsurance business,
whatever its short-term merits, will provide an advantageous long-term journey? Yes,
one reason for long-term optimism is present. With recent defaults by reinsurers causing
everyone to worry more about quality in promisors, Wes-FIC and Berkshire Hathaway
expect that their old-fashionert engineering-type attitudes and financial practices will
help create for Wes-FIC an unusual, commercially useful reputation for issuing trust-
worthy promises in one or more markets or submarkets wherein most buyers will accept
nothing less. Thus, the absence of federal insurance for reinsurance liabilities may
create for Wes-FHC a reputation based competitive advantage which is denied to
Mutual Savings by FSC's support of all Mutual Savings' competitors through insuring
their accounts.

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income

All other "normal" net operating indome, net of interest paid and general corporate
expenses, decreased to $3,354,000 in 1985 from 54,550.000 in 1984 Sourtes were
(1) rents ($2,219,000 gross, earluding rent from Mutual Savings from Wost o's Pasadena
office budding block tpredominantly leased to outsiders although Mutual Savings is
the ground floor tenant and 20 interest and dividends trom cash equivalent and
::

marketable securities held by Precision Steel and its subsidiaries and at the parent
company levei.

Net Gains on Sales of Securities
Wesco's aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, athei income taxes,
increased to $41,523,000 in 1985 from $13,138,000 in 1984.

The 1985 figure includes a big after-tax gain ($34,363,000) from sale of General
Foods stock to Philip Morris Company. This gain contained a large amount of windfall
profit. When Wesco made its investment in General Foods stock several years ago,
because General Foods' executives seemed sensible and the stock was available in the
market at a conservative price relative to its value as a share of ownership in a presum-
ably ever-continuing independent entity, it was unprecedented and virtually incon-
ceivable that a corporation the size of General Foods would ever be "bear-hugged" into
selling out at an immense premium over the then prevailing market price for its stock,
But that is what happened, wholly unpredicted by Wesco, in 1985 as old taboos eroded
and the great American takeover game swept into new areas.

Bowery Savings Bank
In 1985 Wesco, in another co-venture with its parent corporation, approved by
Wesco's directors in the same manner as the Wes-FIC co-venture, joined a group which
invested $100,000,000 tash in a newly organized, New York-chartered savings bank.
The new bank then took over the name, assets and liabilities of the insolvent Bowery
Savings Bank in the city of New York. The takeover received (1) much needed assistance
from FDIC. the tederal agency, akin to FSLIC, which insures deposits in banks, and (2)
the blessing of New York barık regulators. Wesco invested $9,000,000, other Berkshire
Hathaway subsicharies invested $12 384,000 and other unrelated investors invested the
balance of the $100,000,000,

The terms of the FDIC assistane e, which include income-assistant e payments over
many years to the newly organized bank, are extremely complex but can be fairly
summarized as far from adequate to assure that the investors will make a protit. This is as
it should be when $100 million buy a highly leveraged residual equity position in a $5
billion bank, albeit one with many sick assets.

:
Any minorits position investment with such extreme manual leverage in effect
busing witht + 20% down payments, msolving a troubled company a demanding
environment Gan tairly be called a venture capital type investment for Wesco, in odr
judgment the prospect for gan pustitied the roskotloss the investment involves, small
portion about 5 of Wesco's consolated net worth We consider it inanemally
Conservative to risk at Westeros net worth whichroughis the atter an exposure
involved it we believe a hundred smulat hets swould in aggregate
almost sure to
workout surtully

Consolidated Balance Sheet and Related Discussion
Wesco's consolidated balance sheet 1 retains a strength befitting a company
whose consolidated not worth supports lange outstanding pramuses to others and 121
tetiesta a contimame show pan cat additional tests wat

found available, despite constant search:, at prices deemed rational from the standpoint
of Wesco shareholders.

As indicated in Note 3 to the accompanying financial statements, the aggregate
market value of Wesco's marketable equity securities was higher than their aggregate
cost at December 31, 1985 by about $5 million, down sharply from about $13 million
one year earlier.

Wesco's Pasadena real estate, a full block (containing (1) about 125,000 first class net
rentable square feet, including Mutual Savings' space, in a modern office building, plus
(2) an additional et rentable 34,000 square feet of economically n'arginal space in old
buildings requiring expensive improvement), has a market value sul stantially in excess
of carrying value, demonstrated by (1) mortgage debt ($5,023,000 at 9.25% fixed)
against this real estate now exceeding its depreciated carrying value ($3,158,000) in
Wesco's balance sheet at December 31, 1985, and (2) substantial current net cash flow
(about $1 million per year) to Wesco after debt service on the mortgage. The modern
office building is 96% rented, despite a glut of vacant office space in Pasadena. We
charge just-below-standard rents and run the building as a sort of first-class club for
tenants we admire. With these practices, a prime location and superior parking facili-
ties, we anticipate future increases in cash flow, but at no better rate than the rate of
inflation.

Wesco remains in a prudent position when total debt is compared to total share-
holders' equity and total liquid assets. Wesco's practice has been to do a certain amount
of long-term borrowing in advance of specific need, in order to have maximum financial
flexibility to face both hazards and opportunities.

It is expected that the balance sheet strength of the consolidated enterprise will in
due course be used in one or more business extensions. The extension activity, however,
requires some patience, as suitable opportunities are not always present.

As indicated in ichedule I accompanying Wesco's financial statements, invest-
ments, both those in the savings and loan and reinsurance subsidiaries and those held
temporarily elsewhere pending sale to fund business extension, tend to be concen-
trated in very few places. Through this practice of concentration of investments, better
understanding is sought with respect to the few decisions made.

The ratio of Wesco's arınual reported consolidated net income to reported consoli-
dated shareholders' equity, about 21% in 1983-85, was dependent to a very large extent
on securities gains, irregular by nature. The recent ratio is aimosi certain to decline, quite
probably very sharply. Neither possible future acquisitions of other businesses nor
possible future securities gains appear likely to cause the recent ratio to continue. The
business acquisition game is now crowded with optimistic players who usually force
prices for low-leverage acquirers like Wesco to levels where return-on-investment
prospects are modest. And, as discussed earlier, the great contribution of 1985 securities
gains to Wesco's recent return on shareholders' equity contained a big fluke element.
Such fluke gain, rare in any event, tends to come to an investor like Wesco mostly as an
unanticipated by-product of an obviously sound investment which does not require any
fluke to work out well. Because securities generally traded lower several years ago than
they do now, relative to the intrinsic values of the businesses represented by the
securities, creating more obviously sound investments then than now, and because

9

prospects for above-average returns tend to go down as assets managed go up, it is now
easy to predict less desirable future results. It is also easy for any sophisticated Wesco
shareholder, reviewing Wesco marketable securities disclosed in the 1985 Annual
Report, to diagnose (correctly) that the decision-makers are dry of good investment
ideas.

Wesco is trying more to profit from always remembering the obvious than from
grasping the esoteric (including much modern "strategic planning" and "portfolio
theory"). Such an approach, while it has worked fairly weil on average in the past and
will probably work fairly well over the long-term future, is bound to encounter periods
of dullness and disadvantage as it limits action. Moreover, the approach is being applied
to no great base position. Wesco is sort of scrambling through the years without owning
a single business, even a small one, with enough commercial advantage in place to
pretty well assure high future returns on its capital. In contrast, Berkshire Hathaway,
Wesco's parent corporation, owns three such high-return businesses.

On January 25, 1986, Wesco increased its regular quarterly dividend frora 152
cents per share to 16½ cents per share, payable March 6, 1986, to shareholders of record
as of the close of business on February 1986.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed ir.formation about Wesco and its subsidi-
aries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As usual, your
careful attention is sought with respect to these items.

February 13, 1986

10
Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board