W342000
761275
3.3
A
12-31-89
PROCESSED BY
RECEIVED
APR12 1990
OSURE
INCORPORATED
59
WESC
ASADEN
WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
Annual Report 1989
Form 10-K Annual Report 1989

The 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation included the following letter to Wesco
stockholders from the Chairman of the Company.

WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:

Consolidated "normal" operating income (i.e., before all unusual operating income and all net
gains from sales of securities) for the calendar year 1989 increased to $24,414,000 ($3.43 per
share) from $23,564,000 ($3.31 per share) in the previous year.

Consolidated net income (i.e., after unusual operating items and all net gains from sales of
securities) increased to $30,334,000 ($4.26 per share) from $30,089,000 ($4.22 per share) in the
previous year.

Wesco has three major subsidiaries, Mutual Savings, in Pasadena, Wesco-Financial Insurance
Company, headquartered in Omaha and currently engaged principally in the reinsurance business,
and Precision Steel, headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty
metal products businesses. Consolidated net income for the two years just ended breaks down as
follows (in 000s except for per-share amounts) (1);

Year Ended
December 31, December 31,
1989 1988
Per Per
Wesco Wesco
Amount Share Amount Share
"Normal" net operating income of:
Mutual Savings $ 4,191 $59 $ 4,694 $.66
Wesco-Financial Insurance business 14,276 2.00 12,094 1.70
Precision Steel's businesses 2,769 .39 3,167 .44
All other "normal" net operating income (2) 3,178 .45 3,609 .51
24,414 3.43 23,564 3.31
Gain on sale of interest in Bowery Savings Bank 4,836 .68
Net gains on sales of marketable securities 5,920 .83 1,689 .23
Wesco consolidated net income $30,334 $4.26 $30,089 $4.22

(1) All figures are net of income taxes.
(2) After deduction of interest and other corporate expenses. income was from ownership of the Mutual Savings
headquarters office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, interest and dividend income from cash equivalents and
marketable securities owned outside the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries, and the electrical equipment
manufacturing business, 80%-owned by Wesco since yearend 1988.

This supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in audited financial
statements which follow standard accounting convention. The supplementary breakdown is fur-
nished because it is considered useful to shareholders.

54

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
Mutual Savings
Mutual Savings' "normal" net operating income of $4,191,000 in 1989 represented a decrease
of 11% from the $4,694,000 figure the previous year.

The decrease in 1989 was primarily attributable to a less favorable interest rate "spread" as
cost of holding savings increased more than yield on loans and investments.

As usual, these "normal-income" figures come from a decidedly abnormal savings and loan
association.

Separate balance sheets of Mutual Savings at yearend 1988 and 1989 are set forth at the end of
this annual report. They show (1) total savings accounts rising to $293 million from $289 million the
year before, (2) a very high ratio of shareholders' equity to savings account liabilities (near the
highest for any mature U.S. savings and loan association), (3) a substantial portion of savings
account liabilities offset by cash equivalents and marketable securities, and (4) a loan portfolio
(mostly real estate mortgages) of about $154 million at the end of 1989, up slightly from $137
million at the end of 1988.

The loan portfolio at the end of 1989, although containing almost no risk of loss from defaults,
bore an average interest rate of only 9.23%, probably near the lowest among U.S. savings and loan
associations, but up moderately from 8.70% at the end of 1988. Because the loan portfolio is almost
entirely made up of instruments of short maturity or bearing interest rates that adjust automatically
with the market, there is now much less unrealized depreciation in the loan portfolio than the net
unrealized appreciation in Mutual Savings' interest-bearing securities and public utility preferred
stocks. That appreciation at December 31, 1989 was about $11.3 million.

While the "spread" between Mutual Savings' average interest rates paid on savings and
received on loans remains too low to provide respectable profits, this "spread" improved again last
year. Moreover, the disadvantage from inadequate "spread" has been reduced in each recent year
by the effect of various forms of tax-advantaged investment, primarily preferred stock and municipal
bonds. The negative side of this tax-advantaged antidote to inadequate interest rate margin on
loans is the risk that preferred stock and municipal bonds, with their fixed yield and long life, will
decline in value and not provide enough income to cover Mutual Savings' interest and other costs, if
the general level of interest rates should sharply rise. In view of this risk, Mutual Savings' total
commitment has been kept conservative, relative to the amount of its net worth.

Mutual Savings remains a "qualified thrift lender" under the old federal regulatory definition
(which ends June 30, 1991) requiring 60% of assets in various housing-related categories. It plans
to continue keeping substantially all loans receivable either with short expected lives or with interest
rates that fluctuate with the market. All new variable-rate loans are "capped" at the 25% per annum
level, which is over ten percentage points higher than the common 21/2-points-over-market "cap"
offered by competing associations. Naturally, to gain this extra protection from interest rate
increase, Mutual Savings "pays" by (1) getting lower "spreads" over an interest rate index, and
(2) not being able to make loans in amounts desired.

As pointed out in Note 10 to the accompanying financial statements, the book value of Wesco's
equity in Mutual Savings ($48.9 million at December 31, 1989) overstates the amount realizable,
after taxes, from sale or liquidation at book value. If all Mutual Savings' assets, net of liabilities, were
to be sold for the $48.9 million reported as book value, the parent corporation would receive much
less than $48.9 million after substantial income taxation imposed because about $47 million of what
is designated shareholders' equity for accounting purposes is considered bad debt reserves for
most tax purposes.
55

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

Mutual Savings has not only a buried value in unrealized appreciation of securities but also a
buried value in real estate. The foreclosed property on hand (mostly 22 acres at or near the
oceanfront in Santa Barbara, acquired in 1966) has become worth over a long holding period
considerably more than its $8.4 million balance sheet carrying cost. Reasonable, community-
sensitive development of this property has been delayed over 14 years in the course of administra-
tion of land-use laws. But, miraculous to report, eight houses, plus recreation facilities, are in
various stages of completion on the property as part of an authorized development into 32 houses
interspersed with large open areas. Mutual Savings plans to make the development first-rate in
every respect, and unique in the quality of its landscaping.

The buried value in real estate is limited by the small number of houses allowed (32) and by the
fact that only about half of such houses will have a significant ocean view. Additional limitation will
come from high cost of private streets, sewage and utility improvements and connections, landscap-
ing, and non-standardized, environmentally sensitive adaptation of housing to the site. Also, various
charges and burdens, including heavy archaeological obligations imposed by governmental bodies,
will drastically reduce our potential recovery from what it would have been had the zoning and
development climate of the early 1970s continued into the present era. We have "given" a very large
fraction of the value of our land to the County of Santa Barbara in exchange for permission to use it
at all.

The savings and loan association described in the foregoing paragraphs, quite different from
most other associations for a long time, added a significant new abnormality during 1988. Mutual
Savings increased its position in stock of Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (widely known
as "Freddie Mac") to 2,400,000 shares. This is 4% of the total shares outstanding, the legal limit for
any one holder at the time the shares were purchased. Mutual Savings' average cost is $29.89 per
share, compared to a price of $67.12 per share in trading on the New York Stock Exchange at the
end of 1989. Thus, based on 1989 yearend trading prices, Mutual Savings had an unrealized pre-tax
profit in Freddie Mac shares of about $89.4 million. At current tax rates the potential after-tax profit
is about $52.6 million, or $7.39 per Wesco share outstanding.

Freddie Mac, formerly created and long run by a federal agency (the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board), is now owned privately, largely by institutional investors and is now governed by an
independent board of directors. Freddie Mac supports housing primarily by purchasing housing
mortgage loans for immediate transmutation into mortgage-backed securities that it guarantees and
promptly sells. In the process Freddie Mac earns fees and "spreads" while avoiding most interest-
rate-change risk. This is a much better business than that carried on by most (or indeed most of the
top 10% of) savings and loan associations, as demonstrated by Freddie Mac's high percentage
returns earned on equity capital in recent years. One ironic cause of the high returns is that this
creation of federal regulators pays no deposit-Insurance premiums as it replaces much of the former
function of the savings and loan industry.

At Freddie Mac's current dividend rate ($1.60 per annum per share), Mutual Savings' pre-tax
yield is only 5.35% on its $29.89 average cost per share. Post-tax, the dividend yield is only 4.4%,
but this amounts to about 75% of the current after-tax yield from very high grade mortgages.
Moreover, Freddie Mac has a very creditable history of avoiding significant loan losses and
increasing its earnings and dividend rate, thus contributing to increases in the market price of its
stock. Following are figures for 1985-1989:
56

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

Year Ended 12/31:
Earnings
per Share
Dividends
per Share
Year-End
Market Price
per Share
Freddie Mac's
Retum Eamed
on all
Average Equity
1985
$2.98
$.53
$ 9.19
30.0%
1986
3.72
1.13
15.17
28.5
1987
4.53
1.10
12.12
28.2
1988
5.73
1.25
50.50
27.5
1989
6.57
1.60
67.12
25.0

When Wesco's annual report went to press last year, Congress was midcourse in considering
revisions to the savings and loan laws. But it was clear that associations were shortly to be "re-
regulated" into some mode less likely to cause a fresh torrent of deposit-insurance losses, borne by
taxpayers. Provoking that legislative action was a previous torrent of losses which now seems likely
to exceed $150 billion. These losses were caused by a combination of (1) competitive pressure on
the "spread" between interest paid and interest received put on associations and banks when
federal deposit insurance is provided to entities free to pay any interest rates they wish in order to
attract deposits, (2) loose asset deployment rules for associations, (3) admission and retention of
crooks and fools as managers of associations without regulatory objection, (4) general real estate
calamities in certain big regions, and (5) continuous irresponsible protection and enhancement of
unsoundness by the savings and loan lobby and certain members of Congress beholden to the most
despicable savings and loan operators.

The new laws, under the acronym FIRREA, were composed and enacted with a speed caused
by congressional indignation. (A recent example of such indignation, employing remarkable
comparisons, is provided by the words of Congressman Jim Leach: "[if certain allegations are true]
Charles Keating is a financiopath of obscene proportions the Reverend Jim Bakker of American
commerce, given a license to steal by a bank board headed by the Neville Chamberlain of regulation
- a cheerleader who saw little evil and thus spoke little truth.")

Mutual Savings modestly contributed to tough legislative action by resigning from the U.S.
League of Savings Institutions, using a letter of resignation which drew widespread media attention
despite its understated criticism. A copy of this letter of resignation is appended at the end of this
letter to shareholders.

Mutual Savings, desiring to act responsibly, supported virtually all the law revisions made by
FIRREA, even though many of them will hurt Mutual Savings' profits.

For example:

(1) In stages, by July 1, 1994, Mutual Savings (and its service corporation subsidiary) must
dispose of:

(a) High-quality public utility preferred stocks, having tax-advantaged dividend rates
averaging about 10.8% per annum, with a carrying value of $41.4 million at yearend
1989, and a market value then higher by about $8.7 million; and

(b) High-quality convertible preferred stock of Salomon Inc, bearing a tax-advantaged
dividend rate of 9% per annum, with a carrying value of $26 million, believed to be
below the amount which could be realized in the event of sale.

(2) In stages, by the same date, July 1, 1994, Mutual Savings must write down to zero, in
computing net worth for regulatory purposes, its 2,400,000 shares of Freddie Mac, which

57

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
had a carrying value of $71.7 million at yearend 1989, and, as reported above, a market
value then higher by about $89.4 million.

(3) All new asset commitments, fitting Mutual Savings' proclivities and tax position, are pretty
well restricted to (a) housing loans (including indirect loans in the form of mortgage-
backed securities) and (b) debt instruments of the U.S. Government or its agencies.

(4) In stages, designed to create compliance during a two-year period commencing July 1,
1991, Mutual Savings will have to increase "qualified thrift lender" assets by 10 percentage
points to a 70%-of-assets level, using a new and more limited definition of such "qualified
thrift lender" assets which, to our surprise, does not include Freddie Mac stock. If the new
test had been in full effect at December 31, 1989, Mutual Savings would have complied by
disposing of about $74 million of non-home-loan assets (including some cash equivalents)
and placing the proceeds in home loans (including indirect home loans in the form of short-
term mortgage-backed securities).

(5) Deposit-insurance premiums have been increased. Short term, Mutual Savings is protected
by credits of a nonrecurring nature. But by the mid 1990s the new premium rates will
reduce Mutual Savings' annual earning power by about $200,000 from the level which
would have occurred if it were still paying at the 0.083%-of-deposits rate which was in
effect for years, instead of the new rate of 0.23%. The adverse effect of the higher deposit
insurance costs on percentage return on shareholders' equity is much lower at Mutual
Savings than at almost all other associations, which suffer substantially. The cause of
Mutual Savings' advantage is its much larger percentage of equity, compared to deposits.
This is a "one-time" advantage related to one ratio; on an incremental dollar of savings
Mutual Savings faces the same damage as everyone else.

These combined effects will reduce Mutual Savings' normal earning power. While conservatively
operated, Mutual Savings has been scrambling through recent years in its own way, obtaining a
modest success made possible largely by the wide variety of asset-deployment options available
under pre-FIRREA law. Consequently, FIRREA will adversely affect Mutual Savings, however wise
the new restrictions, public needs considered. Nevertheless, it is probable that Mutual Savings'
normal earning power will not be much reduced in 1990 and 1991.

We predict this deferment of decline in normal earnings because:

(1) FIRREA's asset-mix effects are phased in, subject to wide regulatory discretion; and

(2) We anticipate that regulators will be wise enough to exercise their discretion to allow extra-
strong associations, with easy-to-sell assets, the same forbearance which will be granted
to weak associations with hard-to-sell assets.

If we prove wrong in our prediction about regulators, Mutual Savings' wisest alternative will probably
be withdrawal from the savings and loan business and the related obligation to pay deposit-
insurance premiums.

If, as seems likely, Mutual Savings stays in the savings and loan business, it will retain a
business even more mediocre than before, with only two interesting near-term prospects:

(1) During the next few years, Mutual Savings is almost certain to make a pre-tax profit of a
nonrecurring nature as it disposes of the Santa Barbara property it acquired through
foreclosure in 1966; and

(2) Mutual Savings will retain prospects for gain from its Freddie Mac stock if, as anticipated,
Freddie Mac pays ever-higher dividends and the price of the stock also rises.

58

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

Long term, Mutual Savings hopes to find within the savings and loan business some constructive,
continuing role which is not dependent on either of the foregoing anticipated near-term prospects.
Until the right long-term role is found, our policy is simply to "stagger through."

The FIRREA law revision, while greatly improving the savings and loan system from the
taxpayers' point of view, took an approach which can fairly be described as "all stick and no carrot."
This is no way to create felicity for the donkey, but we deserve our share of the beating because we
were previously so passive in the presence of obvious error and evil. Moreover, the safety-
enhancing features of the law revision fell short in one fundamental respect which leaves profits
under pressure: banks and associations remain free, within wide limits, to attract government-
insured deposits at any interest rate they wish, while they must resell the ultimate fungible
commodity, the use of money, into a brutally competitive market. The resulting squeeze on interest-
rate "spread" safely attainable, combined with normal competitive disadvantages of associations,
leaves the average well-run association with a likely future which should not excite its owners.

The normal competitive disadvantages of the average association, compared with the average
bank, now include the following: higher deposit-insurance costs, more confusing new regulation,
and less experience and momentum in various important remunerative activities. As a result, even a
superbly run conventional association, like the one owned by H. F. Ahmanson & Co., sells in the
stock market at a much lower price-to-book-value ratio than a superbly run bank. And the average
savings and loan branch office probably now offers more incremental value to an experienced bank
than it provides to its present owner.

Moreover, the average association does not now compete only with banks. Also gathering
"deposits" are the money-market funds which:

(1) pay no deposit-insurance premiums, saving 0.23% of deposits each year, compared to
associations;

(2) are required to employ exactly no capital from profit-earning proprietors ("management
companies" in fund parlance), while capital requirements for associations have been
raised;

(3) have lower-cost regulation (from an understaffed SEC) than associations;

(4) maintain no expensive branch offices, although they provide check-writing privileges and
accept frequent deposits, using fast, low-cost systems which are better adapted in many
ways to the new order than the systems of the average association; and,

(5) as a result of all the foregoing advantages, have tota annual costs (before proprietors'
profits), as a percentage of assets, which are more than 50% lower than annual costs of
the most efficient association.

Thus, the natural "almost-no-brainer," non-home-mortgage, deposit-gathering niche is now
occupied by a competing, better-adapted new species. This leaves associations in roughly the
position of the original rabbit-like mammals which lost ecological market share when the rabbit was
introduced into Australia. The adjustable-home-mortgage niche may now provide a decent home for
some large, extremely efficient loan originators like Home Savings, but, as we seem to say each
year, we have not yet found for Mutual Savings a permanent lending niche which is attractive, as
distinguished from bearable. In the mortgage business we thus constantly confirm Samuel John-
son's observation that: "Life is a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed."

Left in place in the revised savings and loan system is a significant (although much reduced)
structural risk for the federal government as deposit insurer. Associations retain a considerable
residue of temptation to act imprudently. The temptation, in response to the profit-pressure which is
a natural consequence of the structure of the system, is the same one which caused troubles in the

59

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
past: the temptation to seek an acceptable interest rate "spread," not available any other way, by
bearing undue risk from either (1) mismatched maturities of loans and deposits or (2) losses
through defaults of a gamier class of borrowers willing to promise extra-high interest rates. It is
almost impossible to have asset deployment controls so tough that a bank or association can't look
good for a while (and give the appearance of justifying higher compensation of management) as it
takes risks which will in due course destroy its owners' equity and also cause deposit insurance
losses. The "all stick" method of control is much better than nothing, but it is far from ideal when it is
the exclusive method for prevention of losses borne by the deposit insurer. In contrast, when, long
ago, the federal deposit insurer had low losses, the savings and loan system used both carrots and
stick, so that the average savings and loan operator could do well without exceptional luck or ability.
(The carrots were very low income taxation plus interest-rate controls which reduced cost of
holding deposits while giving an advantage over banks in attracting deposits.) We think the present,
revised system continues to impose more risk than taxpayers should bear, with high deposit-
insurance costs contributing to the risk as well as compensating for it.

Housing is now less assisted than before by the existence of savings and loan associations. An
example of the drift away from housing assistance is provided by FIRREA's new restriction
preventing large loans to any one house builder. The new requirement is that an association loan no
more than 15% of owners' equity to one customer, with exceptions permitted up to 30% for
adequately capitalized associations with good records. The new requirement would have greatly
reduced the profits and housing contributions of Mutual Savings in its early days when it concen-
trated resources in development loans while trusting only a few house-builders. And the new
requirement now has the same general effect. It will significantly restrict availability of house-
buliding loans in many regions of the country. This result demonstrates the impossibility of revising a
complex system without undesired "by-product" effects. The first law of ecology and the first law of
legislation are one and the same: "You can never do merely one thing."

Of course, a "by-product" of law revision sometimes helps, instead of hurts, some participant in
a market. New "risk-based" capital requirements under FIRREA have such an effect, as they give
associations new incentives to transfer monies they otherwise would have earned to Freddie Mac,
through exchange of mortgages for credit-enhanced, mortgage-backed securities. (Although the
securities then provide less income, they help satisfy regulatory capital requirements, because the
securities require less owners' equity to hold.) This income-transfer effect should help Mutual
Savings, through its large shareholding position in Freddie Mac.

Precision Steel

The businesses of Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, located in the outskirts of Chicago at
Franklin Park, Illinois, contributed $2,769,000 to normal net operating income in 1989, down 13%
compared with $3,167,000 in 1988. The decrease in 1989 profit occurred as pounds of product sold
declined by 12%. Revenues were down less, by 5% to $59,440,000.

Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses in 1989 continued
to provide an extraordinary return on resources employed.

As we never tire of saying, the good financial results have an underlying reason, although not
one strong enough to cause the results achieved in the absence of superb management. Precision
Steel's businesses, despite their mundane nomenclature, are steps advanced on the quality scale
from mere commodity-type businesses. Many customers of Precision Steel, needing dependable
supply on short notice of specialized grades of high-quality, cold-rolled strip steel, reasonable
prices, technical excellence in cutting to order, and remembrance when supplies are short, rightly
believe that they have no fully comparable alternative in Precision Steel's market area. Indeed, many
60

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
customers at locations remote from Chicago (for instance, Los Angeles) seek out Precision Steel's
service.

It is not common that steel warehouses have results like Precision Steel's. What we see, year
after year, under David Hillstrom's leadership is boring, repetitive excellence as he remembers a
basic catechism emphasizing service of the highest quality. We hope to be associated with him for a
long time.

Wesco-Financial Insurance Company
A new business was added to the Wesco group in 1985, in co-venture with Wesco's 80% owner
and ultimate parent corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

With the enthusiastic approval of all Wesco's directors, including substantial Wesco sharehold-
ers in the Peters and Caspers families, without whose approval such action would not have been
taken, Wesco in 1985 invested $45 million in cash equivalents in a newly organized, wholly owned
insurance company, Wesco-Financial Insurance Company ("Wes-FIC"). Another $58 million was
invested in 1986, 1987 and 1989.

The new subsidiary, Wes-FIC, reinsured, through another Berkshire Hathaway insurance
company subsidiary as intermediary-without-profit, 2% of the entire book of insurance business of
the long-established Fireman's Fund Group. Wes-FIC thereby assumed the benefits and burdens of
Fireman's Fund's prices, costs and losses under a contract covering all insurance premiums earned
by Fireman's Fund during a four-year period ending August 31, 1989. The arrangement put Wes-FIC
in almost exactly the position it would have been in if it, instead of Fireman's Fund, had directly
written 2% of the business. Differences in results occurred only from the investment side of
insurance, as Wes-FIC, instead of Fireman's Fund, invested funds from "float" generated. Wes-
FIC's share of premiums earned in 1989, before contract termination, exceeded $37 million.

Upon contract termination, Wes-FIC returned to Fireman's Fund $15.6 million in unearned
premiums, net of related ceding commissions, and retained assets of about $91 million offset by
claims reserves which will be exhausted slowly over many future years. We regard the totality of
Wesco's four-year participation in the Fireman's Fund reinsurance contract as having excellent
prospects, all future claim payments considered. Wesco's ultimate parent corporation (and 80%
owner) almost certainly did Wesco a favor in allowing Wesco's participation, as was planned at the
time.

There was some good luck in the selection, years ago, of a termination date for the Fireman's
Fund contract. The date, August 31, 1989, happened to be just before occurrence of both Hurricane
Hugo and the San Francisco earthquake. There was some heavenly justice in this outcome, because
Wes-FIC caught a share of hurricane losses within hours after the inception of the contract in 1985.

Wes-FIC in 1988 began to write direct business, as distinguished from reinsurance. It is now
licensed in Nebraska, Utah and lowa, but it wrote only $183,000 in direct premiums, almost all
surplus lines coverage (permitted for non-admitted insurers) in Alabama. Earned direct premiums
were $438,000.

Wes-FIC's "normal" net income for 1989 was $14,276,000, versus $12,094,000 for 1988. The
net "normal" income figures excluded securities gains, net of income taxes, of $5,910,000 in 1989,
compared with $6,071,000 (including $4,836,000 realized on sale of Wes-FIC's 9% equity interest in
Bowery Savings Bank) in 1988. These items are reported as "Net Gains on Sales of Securities,"
below. Wes-FIC's net income benefitted by about $215,000 in 1989, versus $260,000 in 1988,
because of an unusual adjustment to its income tax provision caused by the Tax Reform Act of
1986.

61

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

It is in the nature of even the finest casualty insurance businesses that in keeping their accounts
they must estimate and deduct all future costs and losses from premiums already earned.
Uncertainties inherent in this undertaking make financial statements more mere "best honest
guesses" than is typically the case with accounts of non-insurance-writing corporations. And the
reinsurance portion of the casualty insurance business, because it contains one or more extra links
in the loss-reporting chain, usually creates more accounting uncertainty than the non-reinsurance
portion. Wesco shareholders should remain aware of the inherent imperfections of Wes-FIC's
accounting, based as it is on forecasts of outcomes in many future years.

Wes-FIC retains a "longage" of capital and a shortage of good insurance business. We see few
present opportunities for sound expansion, but we expect more insurance writing in due course,
made possible by fear that other insurers will become unable or unwilling to pay fair claims.

Effective January 1, 1990, Wes-FIC has begun to reinsure 50% of the book of insurance
business (largely workers' compensation insurance) of Cypress Insurance Company, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway. Wes-FIC's share of premiums written is expected to
approximate $8 million in 1990. We regard this reinsurance contract as worth having at Wesco, but it
is not nearly as promising, per dollar of insurance written, as was the Fireman's Fund contract.

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income

All other "normal" net operating income, net of interest paid and general corporate expenses,
decreased to $3,178,000 in 1989 from $3,609,000 in 1988. Sources were (1) rents ($2,518,000
gross, excluding rent from Mutual Savings) from Wesco's Pasadena office building block (predomi-
nantly leased to outsiders although Mutual Savings is the ground floor tenant), (2) interest and
dividends from cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside the savings and loan and
insurance subsidiaries, and (3) earnings of New America Electrical Corporation. The decrease in
this "all other" component of earnings in 1989 resulted primarily from transfer of assets, with their
related incomes, to Wesco's insurance subsidiary to augment its capital position.

Net Gains On Sales Of Securities

Wesco's aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, after income taxes, decreased
to $5,920,000 in 1989 from $6,525,000 in 1988. As noted above, $5,910,000 of these gains were
realized in the Wes-FIC insurance subsidiary in 1989, versus $6,071,000 realized in 1988.

Convertible Preferred Stock of Salomon Inc

On October 1, 1987 Wesco and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries purchased 100,000
newly issued shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, without par value, of
Salomon Inc ("Salomon"), at a cost of $100 million. Salomon's primary business is transacted by
its subsidiary, Salomon Brothers, a leading securities firm. Our investment was part of a $700 million
transaction in which other subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco's parent, invested $600
million. Principal terms of the transaction included the following: (1) the preferred stock pays
dividends at the annual rate of 9%; (2) each preferred share, purchased at a cost of $1,000, will be
convertible into 26.31579 shares of Salomon common stock on or after October 31, 1990, or earlier
if certain extraordinary events occur; and (3) the preferred stock is subject to mandatory
redemption provisions requiring the retirement, at $1,000 per share plus accrued dividends, of 20%
of the issue on each October 31, beginning in 1995, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain
outstanding.

At the stated conversion price of the preferred stock, a profit (subject to certain procedural
requirements) will be realizable whenever, after October 31, 1990, the common stock of Salomon
(listed on the New York Stock Exchange) trades at over $38 per share. At the time of our
62

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

commitment to buy the new preferred, the common stock of Salomon was selling in the low 30s.
However, shortly after Wesco acquired its new stock certificates, the October 19, 1987 "Black
Monday" stock market crash occurred, which caused temporary but substantial operating losses
plus a lowered credit rating at Salomon. Although Salomon, among securities firms, suffered only its
rough share of the general debacle, its common stock at one time after the crash traded as low as
$1656.

At the end of 1989 Salomon common stock was trading at $23%, compared with $24e at the
end of 1988, after much constructive adjustment of Salomon's business to new conditions.

Salomon's credit as a potential source of preferred dividends and stock redemptions improved
during its 1988 recovery, when generally available dividend rates on preferred stock were roughly
stable. And during 1989 Salomon was a star performer, compared to most other securities firms.
With Wesco's preferred stock now shorter in contractual duration, and its conversion privilege
enhanced in value during the last two years, we believe that the fair market value of Wesco's
investment was somewhat in excess of its cost, and that the aggregate amount of any such excess
was not material to Wesco, at December 31, 1989.

Berkshire Hathaway's Chairman, Warren Buffett, and the undersigned joined the board of
Salomon on October 28, 1987, and are very pleased with the association.

Other Convertible Preferred Stocks

In transactions similar to that which created our Salomon investment, Wesco and its subsidiar-
ies during 1989 invested a total of $75 million in several new issues of convertible preferred stock.
The common stock of all issuers is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. These transactions are
briefly summarized below:
(1) The Gillette Company
On July 20, 1989, Wesco's Wes-FIC subsidiary invested $40 million in newly issued shares of
convertible preferred stock of The Gillette Company ("Gillette"). The stock provides an 84%
annual dividend, must be redeemed by Gillette in 10 years, and is convertible into Gillette
common stock at $50 per share. Warren Buffett, Chairman of Wesco's parent company, has
joined Gillette's board of directors. Gillette has just introduced a new product, the Sensor razor,
which will sell well because it provides significant improvements to the wet-shaving process.
(2) USAir Group, Inc.
On August 7, 1989, Wes-FIC invested $12 million in the newly issued convertible preferred
stock of USAir Group, Inc. ("USAir"). The stock provides an annual 94% dividend, must be
redeemed by USAir in 10 years, and is convertible into USAir common stock at $60 per share.
(3) Champion International Corporation
On December 6, 1989, Wesco and certain of its subsidiaries invested $23 million in a new issue
of convertible preferred stock of Champion International Corporation ("Champion"). The
stock provides an annual 94% dividend, must be redeemed by Champion in 10 years, and is
convertible into Champion common stock at $38 per share.

While we admire the corporations and managements involved, we regard these investments in the
aggregate as sound but not exciting. Few, if any, investors have ever prospered mightily from
investing in convertible preferred stocks of leading corporations. Considering alternatives available
when the investments were made, we were pleased to buy the stocks, but Wesco shareholders
should expect no bonanza.

63

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

New America Electrical Corporation
At the close of 1988, Wesco acquired 80% of the stock of New America Electrical Corporation
("New America Electric") for a price of $8,200,000. Of this price $7,165,000 was cash paid to a
liquidating trust for the former shareholders of New America Fund and $1,035,000 was a ten-year,
10% note payable to Glen Mitchel, CEO of New America Electric, who retains the 20% of New
America Electric not acquired by Wesco. The pattern of this acquisition is a common one within the
Berkshire Hathaway group, where we are willing to be an 80% owner in many a business we would
not be in if we did not admire and trust people who retain the other 20% and are expected to
continue to operate the business, with little help and no hindrance from us.

Glen Mitchel is a long-time friend and trusted and admired business associate of the under-
signed, Wesco's CEO. Indeed, because Wesco's CEO and his family owned a higher percentage of
New America Electric than Wesco, our whole transaction was approved by the Wesco board with
the recommendation and participation of Warren Buffett, CEO and major shareholder of Berkshire
Hathaway, Wesco's parent company. Mr. Buffett had no financial interest in New America Electric,
and he, plus Messrs. Munger and Mitchel, all believed that $10,250,000 was a fair valuation for 100%
of New America Electric at yearend 1988.

This acquisition became available to Wesco because Glen Mitchel preferred minority (20%)
ownership of a Berkshire Hathaway group subsidiary instead of dominant 30% ownership in New
America Electric, with all other New America Electric stock pretty well scattered through a new
public offering, which was the alternative offered. We like causing such confidence and try always to
deserve it.

New America Electric is a manufacturer of various electrical products including switchgear,
circuit breakers, lighting ballasts and starters and electrical equipment for marinas and mobile home
and recreational vehicle parks. Its facilities are in Orange County, California.

When Wesco purchased its 80% interest, New America Electric had a book net worth of about
$6,400,000, including approximately $2,500,000 in cash and equivalents, and a long history of
earning high returns on capital, but with current earnings reduced by an industry-wide price war.

Unfortunately, financial results in New America Electric's first year after acquisition are an
embarrassment to us. In 1989, New America Electric earned only $168,000, after taxes (before
adjustments under consolidated accounting convention incident to our purchase of stock), which is
(1) only 2.6% on historical book value of shareholders' equity, and (2) only 1.6% on the price
Wesco paid. After consolidated accounting adjustments, the total contribution of New America
Electric to Wesco's 1989 earnings was even lower: only $59,000 (included in our earnings
breakdown in the "all other normal net operating income" category).

The year-to-year earnings decline at New America Electric was a stunning 77%. Part of the
earnings decline was caused by high expense incurred in consolidating previously scattered
operations in a large, newly leased building. Other factors were (1) escalation of the price war
accompanied by a 2.5% year-to-year decline in sales, (2) a ridiculous, unfair result in a lawsuit, and
(3) at least one decision which, with hindsight, looks like an error.

New America Electric's 1989 troubles were limited to the income statement. Its balance sheet
remained strong. For instance, at yearend 1989, despite major improvements of facilities and
purchase of new equipment, the same amount of cash and equivalents was on hand as at the start
of the year: $2.5 million.

We appraise the 1989 earnings decline as temporary. We think Glen Mitchel is tackling the
problems with his usual skill and diligence. We are impressed with the new building and new
equipment, which will both reduce costs and improve quality of products and service. And we

64

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
admire not only Glen Mitchel but also his chief officers: Thomas Johnson, Jeff Mowry and Thomas
Vogele.

We will be very supportive as operations are fixed. Our sharing of disappointing times without
irrational panic is an entitlement for people who choose to make these 80%-20% deals with us. But
we will not obscure, in reports to our shareholders, poor financial results, temporary or not, from
any recent business acquisition. And we will be particularly anxious to highlight bad results, no
matter how "immaterial" (in accountingspeak), in a case where Wesco's Chairman had an interest
in the business acquired. If Wesco's shareholders don't hear much about New America Electric in
the future, it will be success, not failure, which causes de-emphasis.

Consolidated Balance Sheet and Related Discussion
Wesco's consolidated balance sheet (1) retains a strength befitting a company whose
consolidated net worth supports large outstanding promises to others and (2) reflects a continuing
slow pace of acquisition of additional businesses because few are found available, despite constant
search, at prices deemed rational from the standpoint of Wesco shareholders.

As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, the aggregate market value of Wesco's
marketable equity securities was higher than their aggregate carrying value at December 31, 1989
by about $98 million, up significantly from about $54 million one year earlier. The consolidated
aggregate market value of all marketable securities, including bonds and other fixed-income
securities, exceeded aggregate carrying value by about $103 million. As earlier emphasized, about
$101 million of this unrealized appreciation lies within the savings and loan subsidiary, and includes
$89.4 million of appreciation in stock of Freddie Mac. In addition, there is about $29 million of
unrealized appreciation in common stocks (mostly stock of The Coca Cola Company) held by
Wesco's insurance subsidiary. Under a peculiar accounting convention applicable only to insurance
companies this appreciation, after deducting income taxes which would be due if the stocks were
sold, is already included in Wesco's audited net worth, even though the gain has never passed
through any audited report of income.

Wesco's Pasadena real estate comprises a full block containing (1) about 125,000 first-class
net rentable square feet, including Mutual Savings' space, in a modern office building, plus (2) an
additional net rentable 34,000 square feet of economically marginal space in old buildings, which it
would probably be wiser to destroy than improve. This real estate has a market value substantially in
excess of carrying value. The existence of unrealized appreciation is demonstrated by (1) mort-
gage debt ($4,643,000 at 9.25% fixed) against this real estate now exceeding its depreciated
carrying value ($2,862,000) in Wesco's balance sheet at December 31, 1989, and (2) substantial
current net cash flow (about $1 million per year) to Wesco after debt service on the mortgage. The
modern office building is 97% rented, despite a glut of vacant office space in Pasadena. We charge
just-below-standard rents and run the building as a sort of first-class club for tenants we admire. In
fact, we are about to refurbish all the bathrooms, even though there is almost nothing wrong with
them. (We have observed many recent instances of mismanagement at other buildings where
managers prefer to paint the financial record, instead of the building. We try, with an occasional
lapse, to stay a long way removed from such conduct, considering it contrary to both implicit
obligation to tenants and long-run interest of the owner.) With these practices, a prime location and
superior parking facilities, we anticipate future increases in cash flow, but at no better rate than the
rate of inflation.

Wesco remains in a prudent position when total debt is compared to total shareholders' equity
and total liquid assets. Wesco's practice has been to do a certain amount of long-term borrowing in
advance of specific need, in order to have maximum financial flexibility to face both hazards and
opportunities. Following this practice, and to reduce interest costs, Wesco during 1989 paid off at
65

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
par its $25 million of 10% debentures due in June 1991, and issued $30 million of new 8%
debentures due in November 1999. The low interest rate on the new debentures was made possible
by Wesco's AA+ credit rating.

It is expected that the balance sheet strength of the consolidated enterprise will in due course
be used in one or more business extensions. The extension activity requires patience, at least for
people like us, as explained below.

It is assumed by many business school graduates, and by almost all consultants, that a
corporation can easily improve its outcome by purchasing unrelated or tenuously related busi-
nesses. According to this widely shared view, if only the obvlous steps had been taken, if the right
"mission statement" had been adopted and the right "experts" hired, then each railroad, instead of
remaining bound in chains by new forms of competition and obsolete and hostile laws and union
rules, would have become another Federal Express, another United Parcel Service, or even another
brilliant performer in the mode of Emerson Electric.

Our experience, both actual and vicarious, makes us less optimistic about easy solutions
through business acquisition. We think undue optimism arises because successful records draw too
much attention. Many people then reason as I would if I forecasted good prospects in big-time
tennis after observation limited to Ivan Lendi and Steffi Graf, or good prospects in the California
lottery after limiting observation to winners. The converse is also true, only more so. Far too little
attention is given to the terrible effects on shareholders (or other owners) of the worst examples of
corporate acquisitions such as CBS-DuMont, Xerox-Scientific Data Systems, General Electric-Utah
International, Exxon-Reliance Electric, Sohio-Kennecott, First Interstate Bancorp-Allied Banc-
shares, Arizona Public Service-MeraBank, USX-Texas Oil & Gas, Prudential Insurance-Bache,
Mobil Oil-Montgomery Ward, General Motors-Hughes Aircraft, and Avon Products-Practically
Anybody. The list ends here for want of space, not a shortage of additional examples. The acquiring
corporations listed are great enterprises, honorably run. In fact, their greatness augments their
utility as examples as they show how hard it is, even for managers promoted to power through
meritocratic procedures at admired corporations, to advance by acquisition the interests of owners.

The full implications of the worst examples are lost, in part, because the conventions of
corporate reporting cause managers to present data in a manner which obscures both facts and
implications. Horrible results are obscured, and mediocre results are made to look fine. Techniques
for masking the truth include (1) mixing bad or mediocre results into other good results which
would have been much better, absent the mixture, and (2) taking several poor results off the stage
at once through the "big bath" technique. The "big bath" technique, in turn, is often accompanied
by some extraordinary gain elsewhere which is cashed on a time schedule designed for obfuscation.
Or a loss is mixed into a "restructuring," adopting word usage which would explain Napoleon's
outcome at Waterloo as a thoughtful strengthening of France.

As we appraise it, the corporate mode of "solving your problems by acquisition" far more often
ends in the mediocre "follow-the-fad-of-the-year" record of a Peter Grace than in the wonderful
record of a Dover Corporation. Nor does the avoidance of dubious methodology guarantee success.
It is hard to win at the game, even if one (1) does not rely on the valuation judgment of outside
acquisition "experts" paid per transaction recommended and closed, and (2) does not create the
in-house equivalent of the outside adviser who must buy to thrive, namely the internal department
which has no function except acquisitions and often bears a label including "planning," or even
"strategic planning."

Perhaps more instructive than the rarity of good corporate acquisition records is the striking
rarity of important acquisitions within the few good records. Most winners act as a wise baseball
hitter would if permitted to pass as many pitches as he wished before swinging.

66

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

For instance, among the best acquisition records is that of Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at
Capital Cities/ABC. Yet the major acquisitions, which accounted for more than 80% of ending
economic value for continuing shareholders, occurred less often than once each two years. This
slow pace occurred even though they were in full control, were (and are) two of the quickest
learners and actors around, did all the important work themselves, and were located in the midst of
a profit- laden and long-lasting communications revolution (television broadcasting) wherein rapid
change churned out opportunities for the acute at an above-normal rate. (The writer has to believe
that the opportunities seized by Murphy and Burke were recognizable only by the acute. This follows
from the writer's participation in rejecting a television-station opportunity, long ago given by Murphy
and Burke when they were barred by law from purchase. The price was less than one-tenth of
present-day value.)

A particularly depressing lesson, for the action-prone, might also be extracted from the
business acquisition record of Wesco's ultimate parent, Berkshire Hathaway. Over 24 years,
Berkshire transformed a small, doomed New England textlie enterprise into a large and diversified
company, without ending up with many more shares outstanding. Yet if you removed from
Berkshire's record the six most significant acquisitions, extracting occurrences averaging one every
four years, the record would not now be mentioned here, or anywhere else.

It has always been easy (indeed, one attracts scores of helpers) to make disadvantageous
business purchases in a hurry with corporate cash. And it has been even easier to cause
disadvantage if one is unwise enough, like General Electric in the Utah international merger, or
Xerox in the merger with Scientific Data Systems, not to be super-sensitive to the probability that
any attainable stock-for-stock merger will transfer more intrinsic business value than is acquired. On
the other hand, advantageous business purchases, not involving competitors or branded products
which can be sold through the acquirer's present sales system, are difficult to find.

It is not just the Peter Principle which makes corporate acquisition records so bad, on average,
although that Principle does especially intense damage in the acquisition field. (This occurs
because, when you promote the General Sales Manager to CEO making unrelated business
acquisitions, you naturally cause more trouble than you earlier did when you made a less
substantive change by promoting the Sales Manager of some territory to General Sales Manager.)
Even a CEO with good acquisition judgment is lucky if, in his remaining career, he finds one large
opportunity which tempts rational response.

The scarcity of good acquisition transactions, of course, does not imply that no wonderful
businesses are ever for sale, it is just that, in a finite, competitive world, no business is so wonderful
that it can't be ruined as an acquisition candidate by increasing the price. When this happens, many
corporations buy anyway, for reasons Columbia's great philosopher, Charles Frankel, so well
understood. The system is so constructed (irresponsibly, Frankel would say) that the corporate
manager gains even though the shareholder loses. (Incidentally, Frankel was mugged to death in a
final inadvertent contribution to the study of Irresponsible systems, reminding many conservative
social critics of Socrates.)

At this point, a last question remains: If successful corporate business acquisition is so hard,
how does one explain the widespread recent success of most of the leveraged-buy-out ("LBO")
operators who have purchased corporations? A huge part of the answer comes from income-tax
effects and other simple effects. When, in a typical LBO, the typical mostly equity corporate
capitalization was replaced by 90% debt plus a new 10%-of-capitalization common stock position:

(1) the combined market value of all the new common stock plus all the new debt became
much higher than the previous market value of all the old common stock, because the
existing stream of pre-tax earnings was no longer shared with corporate income tax

67

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation
collectors who, in many cases, had previously received more cash each year than
shareholders; and
(2) even after the value-enhancing effect of the corporate tax reduction was shared with
former shareholders by paying them extra-high prices to leave, a retained residue of value-
enhancing tax effect made the new common stock (which now became much like a
speculative warrant with good terms) worth considerably more than cost as the ink dried
on acquisition papers; and
(3) the new "owners" then resorted to strategies, difficult neither to conceive nor implement,
including the following:
(a) they eliminated many of the easily removable costs (largely personnel costs) and
sub-par segments which in some mix (i) bedevil successful corporations (including
ours) with sloth and folly and (ii) create their humane grace and, through present
sacrifice, good long-term prospects, justifying sacrifice endured; and
(b) they sold off a few operations at super-high prices, sometimes exercising the easiest
microeconomic insight by selling to a direct competitor and sometimes selling to a
surprisingly easy-to-find non-competitive corporate buyer, not owned by its manag-
ers, willing to pay almost as high a price as a competitor would; and
(4) the new "owners" then profited, in due course, not only from the tax effect and other
simple reshuffling activities described above, but also from the wonderful upside effects of
extreme financial leverage during a long business boom accompanied by a rising stock
market.

Whether the country wants a large number (or even any) of its large corporations to have
extremely leveraged capitalizations, except through occasional adversity, presents interesting social
questions. Is one social function of corporations to be financially strong so that they act as shock
absorbers, protecting dependent employees, suppliers and customers from part of the volatility
implicit in capitalism? Was Ben Franklin right when he included the following folk wisdom in Poor
Richard's Almanac: "It is hard for an empty sack to stand upright." Is a weak corporation, borrowed
to the hilt, the social equivalent of a bridge with an inadequate reserve of structural strength?
Granting that leveraged buy outs have some favorable effects (as well as unfavorable effects) on
long term efficiency, how many thousands of able people do we wish to attract into promotional
corporate recapitalization activity which (1) reduces corporate income taxes, (2) often tests the
limits of antitrust law, and (3) focuses business attention on short-term cash generation to pay
down oppressive levels of debt? Finally, as Columbia Law School's Professor Lou Lowenstein puts
it (more or less): "Do we really want entire corporate businesses, as important social institutions,
continuously traded like pork belly contracts?"

However the social questions are answered, three aspects of the present situation are clear.
First, the corporate tax effect is so large in LBO transactions that easy success in such transactions
does not imply that success is easy in ordinary corporate acquisitions. Second, the hordes of
leveraged-buy-out operators now with us raise the general level of acquisition prices to the
detriment of other would-be acquirers, including Wesco, which are not willing to maximize tax
benefits through maximized borrowing. And, third, the LBO operators will not go away so long as
present permissive laws last. The operators have a real advantage under such laws, not just a fig
leaf aiding promotion. Even though failure and disgrace will reduce their number, and prices paid In
leveraged-buy-out transactions will fall, the capitalized value of reducing the corporate income tax
will remain. Therefore, plenty of rational incentive will remain for transactions. The LBO genie will
encounter reverses, but he is not going back in the bottle unless ordered to do so by new laws.
68

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

It should also be noted that the LBO operators' Incentives to bid high do not end with real
advantages derived from tax law and willingness to reshuffle businesses with much speed and few
scruples. Additional incentives for high bids come from typical structures In which general partners
of LBO partnerships risk little of their own money (often less than none after fees are taken into
account), yet share significantly in gains. Such arrangements are similar to the system of the race
track tout. And who has ever seen a tout who didn't want his backer to make a lot of bets?

To Wesco, as a non-LBO operator, the good-corporate-acquisition game was always tough.
And that game in each recent year has become more like fishing for muskies at Leech Lake, in
Minnesota, where the writer's earliest business partner, Ed Hoskins, had the following conversation
with his Indian guide:

"Are any muskies caught in this lake?"

"More muskles are caught in this lake than in any other lake in Minnesota. This lake is famous
for muskies."

"How long have you been fishing here?"

"19 years."

"And how many muskies have you caught?"

"None."

When a management has our point of view, infrequency of business acquisition may safely be
predicted. Whether this happens, as we like to believe, because the game is hard for almost
everyone, or merely because the game is hard for us, the result for Wesco shareholders is the same:
less worthwhile activity than we all would like. But there may be one consolation: A series of big,
Incorrectable acquisition troubles, with no meaningful salvage, is seldom caused by people who
think the acquisition game is like fishing for muskies at Leech Lake. One terrible acquisition result is,
of course, quite possible. For instance, Wesco would cheerfully invest $75 million tomorrow, with a
60% chance of total loss, provided the pay-off for winning was large enough to cause statistical
expectation to provide a handsome return.

As indicated in Schedule I accompanying Wesco's financial statements, investments, both
those in the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries and those held temporarily elsewhere
pending sale to fund business extension, tend to be concentrated in very few places. Through this
practice of concentration of investments, better understanding is sought with respect to the few
decisions made.

The ratio of Wesco's annual reported consolidated net income to reported consolidated
shareholders' equity, about 11% in 1987-89, was dependent to a significant extent on securities
gains, irregular by nature.

The considerable, and higher than desired, liquidity of Wesco's consolidated financial position
as this is written does not result from our forecast that business conditions are about to worsen, or
that interest rates are about to rise, or that common stock prices are about to fall. Wesco's condition
results, instead, from our simply not finding opportunities for more aggressive use of capital with
which we are comfortable.

Wesco continues to try more to profit from always remembering the obvious than from grasping
the esoteric. It is remarkable how much long-term advantage people like us have gotten by trying to
be consistently not stupid, instead of trying to be very intelligent. There must be some wisdom in the
folk saying: "It's the strong swimmers who drown". Our approach, while it has worked fairly well on
average in the past and will probably work fairly well over the long-term future, is bound to
encounter periods of dullness and disadvantage as it limits action.

69

Reproduced from 1989 Annual Report of Wesco Financial Corporation

Moreover, our approach continues to be applied to no great base position. Wesco has only a
tiny fraction of its total intrinsic value in businesses with enough commercial advantage in place to
assure permanent high future returns on capital employed. In contrast, Berkshire Hathaway,
Wesco's parent corporation, has a much larger proportion of its intrinsic value in durable high-return
businesses.

The foregoing description of attitude, as well as the following historical explanation of the
current situation, is repeated in the annual report each year, accompanied by a standard disclaimer
designed to deter inappropriate optimism. When Wesco's parent corporation acquired control,
Wesco's activities were almost entirely limited to holding (1) some surplus cash, plus (2) a multi-
branch savings and loan association which had many very long-term, fixed-rate mortgages, offset
by interest-bearing demand deposits. The acquisition of this intrinsically disadvantageous position
was unwisely made, alternative opportunities considered, because the acquirer (including the signer
of this letter) was overly influenced by a price considered to be moderately below liquidating value.
Under such circumstances, acquisitions have a way of producing, on average, for acquirers who are
not quick-turn operators, low to moderate long-term results. This happens because any advantage
from a starting "bargain" gets swamped by effects from change-resistant mediocrity in the
purchased business. Such normal effects have not been completely avoided at Wesco, despite
some successful activities, including a large gain in 1985 from an investment in General Foods.

A corporation like Wesco, with no significant proportion of intrinsic value in great businesses,
continues to be like a tortoise in a race of hares. And, as we have demonstrated in one more year,
this particular tortoise is not very sprightly. Moreover, what sprightliness remains is often deterred
by remembrance of past new-activity outcomes which were at least as bad as those of the writer's
dog when it limped home from its first foray outside the yard both (1) injured by a car and (2)
bloated from overeating garbage. (Some long-time Wesco shareholders may painfully remember
one such once-new activity: hillside subdivision in the place with the ironic name, "Friendly Valley.")

On January 25, 1990, Wesco increased its regular quarterly dividend from 191½ cents per share
to 20½ cents per share, payable March 13, 1990, to shareholders of record as of the close of
business on February 28, 1990.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its subsidiaries as well as audited
financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As usual, your careful attention is sought with
respect to these items.

March 5, 1990
Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board

70