M
W342000
533379
12/31/88

WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION

Annual Report 1988
Form 10-K Annual Report 1988

WESCO FINANCIAL CORPORATION
LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS
To Our Shareholders:
Consolidated "normal" operating income (i.e., before all unusual operating
income and all net gains from sales of securities) for the calendar year 1988
increased to $23,564,000 ($3.31 per share) from $16,612,000 ($2.33 per share) in
the previous year.
Consolidated net income (i.e., after unusual operating losses and all net gains
from sales of securities) increased to $30,089,000 ($4.22 per share) from
$15,213,000 ($2.14 per share) in the previous year.
Wesco has three major subsidiaries, Mutual Savings, in Pasadena, Precision
Steel, headquartered in Chicago and engaged in the steel warehousing and specialty
metal products businesses, and Wesco-Financial Insurance Company, headquartered
in Omaha and currently engaged principally in the reinsurance business. Consoli-
dated net income for the two years just ended breaks down as follows (in 000s
except for per-share amounts) (1);

Year Ended
December 31, 1988 December 31, 1987
Amount
Per
Wesco
Share
Amount
Per
Wesco
Share
"Normal" net operating income (loss) of:
Mutual Savings .................................................................... $ 4,694 $.66 $ 2,895 $.41
Wesco-Financial Insurance business .......................................... 12,094 1.70 9,459 1.33
Precision Steel's businesses ..................................................... 3,167 .44 2,450 .34
All other "normal" net operating income (2)................................ 3,609 .51 1,808 .25
23,564 3.31 16,612 2.33
Gain on sale of interest in Bowery Savings
Bank ................................................................................. 4,836 .68 — —
Net gains on sales of marketable securities ................................. 1,689 .23 1,208 .17
Writeoff by Mutual Savings of prepaid FSLIC
insurance premiums (3)............................................................ — — (1,935) (.27)
Flood loss at Precision Steel .................................................... — — (672) (.09)
Wesco consolidated net income ............................................... $30,089 $4.22 $15,213 $2.14
(1) All figures are net of income taxes.
2 (2) After deduction of interest and other corporate expenses. Income was from ownership of the Mutual Savings headquarters
office building, primarily leased to outside tenants, and interest and dividend income from cash equivalents and
marketable securities owned outside the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries.
(3) Necessitated by the Federal Home Loan Bank's elimination of the savings and loan industry's nearly $1-billion secondary
insurance reserve, consisting of deposit insurance premiums prepaid to FSLIC, the U.S. agency which insures accounts in
savings and loan associations.

This supplementary breakdown of earnings differs somewhat from that used in
audited financial statements which follow standard accounting convention. The
supplementary breakdown is furnished because it is considered useful to
shareholders.
1

Mutual Savings
Mutual Savings' "normal" net operating income of $4,694,000 in 1988 repre-
sented an increase of 62% from the $2,895,000 figure the previous year.

The high percentage increase in 1988 was partly fluke. The interest rate curve
happened to be precisely adapted to Mutual Savings' needs during most of the year,
and already, in 1989, net interest margins are impaired as short-term rates and
intermediate-term rates have become more or less identical.

Moreover, these "normal-income" figures come from a decidedly abnormal
savings and loan association.

Separate balance sheets of Mutual Savings at yearend 1987 and 1988 are set
forth at the end of this annual report. They show (1) total savings accounts rising to
$289 million from $287 million the year before, (2) a very high ratio of shareholders'
equity to savings account liabilities (near the highest for any mature U.S. savings and
loan association), (3) a substantial portion of savings account liabilities offset by
cash equivalents and marketable securities, and (4) a loan portfolio (mostly real
estate mortgages) of about $137 million at the end of 1988, down slightly from $139
million at the end of 1987.

The loan portfolio at the end of 1988, although containing almost no risk of loss
from defaults, bore an average interest rate of only 8.70%, probably near the lowest
among U.S. savings and loan associations, but up moderately from 8.38% at the end
of 1987. Because the loan portfolio is almost entirely made up of instruments of short
maturity or bearing interest rates that adjust automatically with the market, there is
now less unrealized depreciation in the loan portfolio than the net unrealized
appreciation in Mutual Savings' interest-bearing securities and public utility preferred
stocks. That appreciation at December 31, 1988 was about $7.5 million.

While the "spread" between Mutual Savings' average interest rates paid on
savings and received on loans remains too low to provide respectable profits, this
"spread" improved last year. Moreover, the disadvantage from inadequate "spread"
has been reduced in each recent year by the effect of various forms of tax-
advantaged investment, primarily preferred stock and municipal bonds. The negative
side of this tax-advantaged antidote to inadequate interest rate margin on loans is the
risk that preferred stock and municipal bonds, with their fixed yield and long life, will
decline in value and not provide enough income to cover Mutual Savings' interest
costs, if the general level of interest rates should sharply rise. In view of this risk,
Mutual Savings' total commitment is kept conservative, relative to the amount of its
net worth.

Mutual Savings remains a "qualified thrift lender" under the federal regulatory
definition requiring 60% of assets in various housing-related categories. It plans to
continue keeping substantially all loans receivable either with short expected lives or
with interest rates that fluctuate with the market. All new variable-rate loans are
"capped" at the 25% per annum level, which is over ten percentage points higher
than the normal 2½-points-over-market "cap" offered by competing associations.
Naturally, to gain this extra protection from interest rate increase, Mutual Savings
2

"pays" by (1) getting lower "spreads" over an interest rate index, and (2) not being
able to make loans in amounts desired.

As pointed out in Note 10 to the accompanying financial statements, the book
value of Wesco's equity in Mutual Savings ($49.7 million at December 31, 1988)
overstates the amount realizable, after taxes, from sale or liquidation at book value. If
all Mutual Savings' assets, net of liabilities, were to be sold for the $49.7 million
reported as book value, the parent corporation would receive much less than $49.7
million after substantial income taxation imposed because about $47 million of what
is designated shareholders' equity for accounting purposes is considered bad debt
reserves for most tax purposes.

Mutual Savings has not only a buried value in unrealized appreciation of
securities but also a buried value in real estate. The foreclosed property on hand
(mostly 22 acres at or near the oceanfront in Santa Barbara) has become worth over
a long holding period considerably more than its $5.4 million balance sheet carrying
cost. Reasonable, community-sensitive development of this property has been
delayed over 13 years in the course of administration of land-use laws. But,
miraculous to report, grading, street and public utilities work is now nearly finished,
and significant other construction work is now under way on the property for an
authorized development into 32 houses interspersed with large open areas. Mutual
Savings plans to make the development first-rate in every respect, and unique in the
quality of its landscaping.

The buried value in real estate is limited by the small number of houses allowed
(32) and by the fact that only about half of such houses will have a significant ocean
view. Additional limitation will come from prospective high cost of private streets,
sewage and utility improvements and connections, landscaping, and non-standard-
ized, environmentally sensitive adaptation of housing to the site. Also, various
charges and burdens, including heavy archaeological obligations imposed by govern-
mental bodies, will drastically reduce our potential recovery from what it would have
been had the zoning and development climate of the early 1970s continued into the
present era. We have "given" a very large fraction of the value of our land to the
County of Santa Barbara in exchange for permission to use it at all. In California these
days such results are common, particularly in coastal areas.

The savings and loan association described in the foregoing paragraphs, quite
different from most other associations for a long time, added a significant new
abnormality during 1988. Mutual Savings increased its position in preferred stock of
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (widely known as "Freddie Mac") to
2,400,000 when-issued shares. This is 4% of the total shares outstanding, the legal
limit for any one holder. As this letter is written, all of these 2,400,000 shares have
been issued and paid for. Mutual Savings' average cost is $29.89 per share,
compared to a price of $50.50 per share in trading on the New York Stock Exchange
at the end of 1988. Thus, based on 1988 yearend trading prices, Mutual Savings had
an unrealized pre-tax profit in Freddie Mac shares of about $49.5 million. At current
tax rates the potential after-tax profit is about $29.2 million, or $4.10 per Wesco
share outstanding.

3

Freddie Mac is a hybrid, run by a federal agency (the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board), but now owned privately, largely by institutional investors. Freddie Mac
supports housing primarily by purchasing housing mortgage loans for immediate
transmutation into mortgage-backed securities that it guarantees and promptly sells.
In the process Freddie Mac earns fees and "spreads" while avoiding most interest-
rate-change risk. This is a much better business than that carried on by most (or
indeed most of the top 10% of) savings and loan associations, as demonstrated by
Freddie Mac's remarkable percentage returns earned on equity capital in recent
years.

At Freddie Mac's current dividend rate ($1.60 per annum per share), Mutual
Savings' pre-tax yield is only 5.35% on its $29.89 average cost per share. Post-tax, the
dividend yield is only 4.4%. But Freddie Mac has a very creditable history of raising
its earnings and dividend rate, thus contributing to increases in the market price of its
stock. The market price increases because Freddie Mac's "preferred" stock in
substance is equivalent to common stock. Here are figures for 1985-1989:

Year Ended 12/31: Earnings Dividends Year-End Freddie Mac's
 per Share per Share Market Price Return Earned
 per Share on all
 Average Equity
1985 ............................... $2.98 $.53 $ 9.19 30.0%
1986 ............................... 3.72 1.13 15.17 28.5
1987 ............................... 4.53 1.10 12.13 28.2
1988 ............................... 5.73 1.25 50.50 27.5
1989 (announced) ............................... ? 1.60 ? ?

The above numbers are unusually good for a stock selling at only $50.50 per
share at the end of 1988. We think the probable cause of substandard investor
response is some combination of (1) lack of familiarity with Freddie Mac among
investors and (2) fear that the federal officials who control Freddie Mac will
mismanage it or not deal fairly with Freddie Mac's private owners, perhaps under
pressure from Congress.

There is, of course, some risk that Freddie Mac will ruin its remarkable business
by ignoring fiduciary duties to new private owners, or reducing credit standards, or
making bets on the future course of interest rates. But we consider such outcomes
unlikely. The tendency to consider them likely rests largely in those who think ill of
federal officials because of the dramatic, multi-billion-dollar insolvency of FSLIC (the
U.S. agency which insures depositor accounts in savings and loan associations). This
reaction is natural as it becomes ever more clear that the final FSLIC insolvency was
augmented by regulatory failure to intervene early to solve easily diagnosed
problems which were getting worse at a rapid rate.

But FSLIC and Freddie Mac are two separate entities, and the circumstances
affecting the business of each are radically different. As the world changed, the
troubles of FSLIC had roughly the following history and causes:

(1) In its early decades, the savings and loan industry lived under a system
ordained by legislation in the 1930s. Interest rates paid by both banks and
4

associations were fixed by law at low levels, but with (i) a deposit-attracting
advantage of 4% more per annum which could be paid by associations and (ii)
tax advantages for associations, compared with banks. The interest rate controls
were created to dampen competition in an effort to prevent recurrence of the
widespread failure of deposit-taking institutions which had followed the aggres-
sive banking practices of the 1920s. In return for the cartel-like advantages
granted and federal deposit insurance, associations were required to concentrate
assets in home lending and to be conservative in risking losses from nonrepay-
ment of loans. The standard practice of associations was then to borrow short (by
taking demand deposits) and to lend long (by making long-term mortgage loans
at fixed rates). Associations lived on an approximate two-percentage-point
"spread" between the mortgage interest rate and the mandated low interest rate
on deposits.

(2) This system always had a built-in risk that interest rates would generally
and sharply rise, in which case the government would be forced to raise interest
rates on deposits in order to enable associations to hold deposits. Then associa-
tions would be squeezed into losses because they were hooked by contract to
fixed interest rates on old mortgages. But associations accommodated this risk,
during periods of low inflation and slowly rising, government-fixed interest rates
on deposits, by continuously "growing their way" out of profit-margin trouble.
Associations simply "averaged up" the rate of interest on the whole mortgage
portfolio by making ever larger amounts of new mortgage loans at higher interest
rates. The necessary continuous growth, despite mandated low interest rates for
savers, was made possible, of course, by the 4% per annum deposit-attracting
rate advantage possessed by associations. The system contained much wise and
constructive cynicism, akin to that of the country's founding fathers. The
system's creators wanted associations not to cause losses to FSLIC, the federal
deposit-insurer, while helping the citizenry by favoring housing. So, knowing like
Ben Franklin that "it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright," the creators
simply gave associations significant competitive and tax advantages that made it
easy for executives to do well while doing right. Also, because the creators
admired "cooperative," workers'-self-help models and, looking back at the
excesses of the 1920s, feared losses from capitalistic ambition more than they
feared inefficiency from a more socialized process, all federally-chartered and
most state-chartered associations were "mutual" institutions. Such institutions
are "owned" by depositors and are therefore not capable of making any
shareholder rich. In the early decades, this system, relying on carrot as well as
stick, was, like the FHA, one of the most successful systems in U.S. history. It did
a world of good at a trifling cost.

(3) Naturally, the few state-chartered, shareholder-owned associations
(including Mutual Savings, which was "mutual" in name only) in due course
became more aggressive than their "mutual" brethren and used their govern-
ment-mandated competitive advantage to make their shareholders rich. This
process was aided by their emphasizing high-yielding tract-housing loans in the
5

faster-growing parts of the country during a long boom. And envy plus logic then
caused many "conversions" of formerly "mutual" associations to shareholder
ownership, which, featuring different incentives, increased managements' pro-
clivity to endure risk in the hope of above-normal reward. The heavy-risk-taking
attitude finally spread throughout a large percentage of the savings and loan
industry, including formerly conservative "mutual" institutions that remained
"mutual" institutions.

(4) But, eventually, the tendencies of government to escalate currency
debasement and of interest rates to rise sharply with sharp inflation combined to
reduce the prosperity of the savings and loan industry, now structured more to
produce extra profit when much went well than to prevent loss when much
went wrong. As interest rates rose, even associations holding only high-grade,
long-term, fixed-rate mortgages suffered large losses. Most gamier associations
became hopelessly insolvent.

(5) In this new high-interest-rate environment, it proved impossible for
most associations to "grow their way" out of trouble. Suddenly, the former bank
and association duopoly faced new competition from "money market funds"
that paid higher interest and also provided check-writing privileges, as well as
from U.S. Treasury obligations that were more conveniently available. Not only
could deposits not be increased; they could not be kept from shrinking.

(6) To prevent continuation of deposit outflows, which then tended to
cripple housing, legislators decontrolled interest rates on all savings accounts.
Next, after an irrational delay, the legislators allowed housing lending at interest
rates that fluctuated with the market, a wise practice long standard in England.
Even so, many associations remained insolvent "basket cases," because interest
rates that had ratcheted upward on liabilities were matched against fixed and
outdated rates on assets. Less impaired but still solvent associations had difficulty
maintaining adequate equity capital without the "edge" possessed by the
industry in its early years.

(7) In this period of trouble it also seemed logical to Congress and state
legislatures, responding to non-apposite use of "free-market" labels and re-
quests from savings and loan operators, to try to relieve the financial pressure by
"helping" associations make more money. The method used was revision of
investment rules for associations so that they could attempt to widen "spreads"
by engaging in much more risky and difficult-to-manage deployments of assets
that promised high yields if everything worked right. Deposit insurance was
retained.

(8) But the coexistence of deposit insurance, liberalized asset deployment
rules, and uncontrolled rates of interest which could be paid to savers had
terrible consequences. The new system (despite minor impediments from some
new anti-growth rules) enabled almost any association, even if small and remote
and run by a crook or fool, to expand fast and almost without limit. When any
association could use the government's credit and also promise to pay as high an
interest rate as was required to bring in any desired amount of savings, the only

remaining limitation on size was the requirement that a small percentage of
savings be matched with net worth. This was not much of a problem for growth-
minded associations. The government, accommodatingly, reduced the percent-
age of net worth required. And when, after this help, growth was so great that
more net worth was required to meet the relaxed general standard, such net
worth could easily be provided, on paper, for a long time during expansion.
After all, it is child's play to make any bank or savings and loan association report
high profits for a while, thereby rapidly augmenting reported net worth, by
making loans (or other asset deployments) providing both (i) high initial
interest or profit accruals and (ii) probable high ultimate but delayed losses
caused by the risks assumed. There are always real estate operators willing to
sign any sort of promise or make any sort of projection in exchange for cash. The
real estate crowd is notoriously optimistic and also includes a significant fraction
of people like those who caused Mark Twain to define a mine as "a hole in the
ground owned by a liar." Also, good short-term results are often available, in
modern times, from merely committing money to sound borrowers for a very
long time at a fixed rate, thus substituting lethal risk from interest rate change for
lethal risk imposed by bad credit quality. Using one or more of the short-term,
high-profit-reporting strategies, many minor associations soon grew to gargan-
tuan size, often paying stockbrokers (and other brokers) commissions to bring
in the massive amounts of deposits desired. The practice of using brokers to gain
deposits had a high correlation with later insolvencies.

(9) The new system included a "runaway-feedback mode," exactly what
every wise engineer or businessman learns to dread. It could and did entice into
inappropriate conduct not only those always prone to bad behavior but also
some associations that had formerly been admirable but were now suffering
from bad luck. Once you were a loser and insolvent, for any reason, and very
likely doomed, the system still granted you an opportunity to risk as much you
wished of the government's money (your money was gone) in some massive
gamble, on interest rates or business outcome, that had a chance of returning
you to health. And, if the first gamble didn't work, you could always "double
up." Such were the "parlay" possibilities for losers.

The losers' "parlays" were, quite predictably, made much quicker to
arrange and much grander in scope by the availability of brokers who were paid
to solicit government-insured deposits at above-normal interest rates (not a hard
sale). The result was right out of Alice in Wonderland. For perhaps the first time
in the history of regulation of deposit-taking institutions, the government (in the
wry words of John Liscio of Barron's) was creating widespread "runs of money
into small problem institutions and in the process turning them into big problem
institutions."

For initial winners, shrewd or lucky in making risky investments, the
"parlay" possibilities were immensely better. One instant-centimillionaire sav-
ings-and-loan family tried to gild the lily under such winning circumstances. The
association involved proposed payment to a family executive of total compensa-
7

tion pushing $10 million per year. Then, after government regulators objected,
the family satisfied itself with ordinary compensation (including bonus and
special retirement contribution) of a mere $5 million or so. But the reduced
ordinary compensation was supplemented by a lion's share of a huge new
"incentive" to pay attention to business. Executives were granted rights to buy
at attractive prices options or other securities of "junk bond" issuers which were
available to the association at those attractive prices only in return for purchase
of "junk bonds". ("Junk bonds" are bonds with high interest rates and grossly
substandard credit backing that banks are pretty well forbidden to buy under
their less permissive regulatory system. In recent years a large proportion of
"junk bonds" were issued to help finance highly leveraged acquisitions and
restructurings of corporations fearing or suffering from "raids" by hostile-
takeover artists. Current practice is for deposit-insured banks to finance the most
secured portion of massive corporate debt, which portion is maximized to a
point which makes bank regulators sullen and fretful but not mutinous. Then
some deposit-insured associations [and others] take loan positions so junior to
many layers of senior debt [including but not limited to debt to banks] that
language is strained when one calls them "loan positions." This anomaly in the
total regulation of insured institutions is made possible [along with many other
anomalies] by the division of total regulation into four systems [state and
federal systems for both associations and banks] with some systems further
subdivided to provide additional Balkanization.)

Such extraordinary success, in turn, had runaway-feedback possibilities of
its own as examples of "parlayed" success became more widely known and
envied, an enlightenment aided by brokers earning commissions or "spreads"
by selling risky investments. In many cases, the end of the rapidly spreading
winner's "parlay" game has not yet come. All we know is that the early phases
look like many a speculative bubble which, in due course, was followed by a big
bust.

There were other important consequences of the "parlay" games made
possible by coexistence of decontrol and deposit insurance. The high interest
rates promised by associations trying to "grow their way" out of trouble, or bent
on instant-centimillionaire glory, tended to "bid up" the prices paid for savings
by less ambitious associations in the would-be-conservative category. These
institutions were therefore almost forced to consider high-rate, high-risk assets,
so that they might have some chance of obtaining a moderate margin over costs.
And thus was born the suggestion of a new sort of Gresham's law for deposit-
insured, unlimited-interest-rate banking: "Bad lending drives out good."

The basic problem underlying this new form of Gresham's law may be
impossible to solve, given the probable legislative premises that virtually unlim-
ited deposit insurance, uncontrolled interest rates, wide discretion in deploying
assets, and long grace periods when trouble comes, are each sacred. The
problem is grounded deep in the nature of things, in the principle that in a
complex system you can never "do merely one thing." When one variable is

maximized other variables often get minimized in an undesired way. In this case,
in making money ultra-easy for everyone to get and invest in any amount and
way desired, thus maximizing the availability of investable money, Congress
changed the savings and loan system in a way that made it harder for associations
to reloan the money safely at interest rates that covered costs. Congress thus
minimized the opportunities for earning profits safely. As Garrett Hardin, the
biologist, (or perhaps George Stigler, the economist) might say: "How could it
be otherwise?" At any rate, the result as we observe it seems to be, roughly, that
every form of savings and loan operation that is safe and simple, so that ordinary
executives can manage it, avoiding both all net interest-rate-change risk and all
net credit risk, will provide no net profit. Therefore every association that wishes
to continue to exist is forced either to be remarkably prescient or to endure some
combination of net credit risk and net interest-rate-change risk. This, in turn,
makes normal earnings at strong associations like those of an earthquake insurer
in a year when there is no earthquake. (Remember, upward fluctuations in
interest rates on modern home loans are typically "capped" a mere 2½ percent-
age points over the mortgage interest rate prevailing when the loans were made.)
Also, weak associations, guided by the less able, less honest, or less lucky, after
exhausting shareholders' equity, tend to cause big losses to the government
agency which insures savings accounts. These losses may exceed resources
provided by deposit-insurance premiums.

Indeed, a government agency that tries to depend on 100% of its thinly
capitalized deposit-insurance patrons being of above-average ability in un-
restricted asset management, unrestricted in scale, would be "bonkers" not to
expect large insurance losses. The system we now have is not "free market"
economics. It is non-economics.

[At this point it is logical to inquire: If the foregoing reasoning is correct, why
doesn't it apply to banks and why is the FDIC, which insures bank deposits, now
in so much better shape than FSLIC? We think the answers are (i) that the
fundamental reasoning does apply to banks, and we note that irresponsible bank
lending, bank losses and FDIC losses all escalated dramatically after the installa-
tion of unlimited interest rates in a banking system already containing deposit
insurance, and (ii) that the FDIC losses are, so far, lower than FSLIC losses for
reasons including the following:

(a) the profit-shortage pressure has been lower at banks because of
favorable momentum effects from the past, particularly including the banks'
long monopoly in checking accounts, difficulties faced by would-be new
entrants into banking, and traditional bank avoidance, through continuous
repricing of loans, of most risk from interest rate change; and

(b) there is much tougher regulation, including better domestic-asset-
quality controls, under the bank regulatory apparatus.

The second factor is particularly important. Tougher regulation clearly limits
damage to the deposit-insurer. Indeed, if the toughness of bank regulation could
be doubled and redoubled, so that it closed banks summarily when liquidating
9

value of equity was impaired but not exhausted, like the clearing system of a
stock or commodity exchange, little would remain of expectancy of deposit-
insurer loss from idiosyncratic high risk taking. It does not follow, however, that
banks, even under such toughened regulation, would refrain from forms of high
risk taking which became so conventional that trouble, if it came, would sink
everyone at once. Under such circumstances, the regulated have a tendency to
appraise regulatory threat as a paper tiger. Banking institutions (perhaps wisely)
believe that the regulator which must close all banks will close none. Something
like this has already occurred with respect to unwise foreign lending, where the
regulatory response would, very likely, have been much tougher if only one big
bank had been involved. Instead, with virtually all big banks threatened by huge
holdings of dubious foreign loans, bank regulators are now much tougher on
domestic loans worth 70¢ on the dollar than on foreign loans worth 40¢ on the
dollar.]

(10) All of the foregoing happened to coincide with a general nationwide
increase in wheeler-dealer activity, often with a fraud component. In this
environment the new system attracted precisely the wrong sort of people into
the savings and loan business as if designed for this purpose. It would have been
hard to invent a system more irresponsible than the one that allowed any half-
plausible group to control a savings and loan charter carrying the right to use the
government's credit in the prompt attraction of multiple millions, or even
billions. This was the financial equivalent of distributing free machine guns in
cocaine alley, and many billions of dollars of fraud losses naturally followed.

(11) There also was a grand collapse in oil prices, creating the worst
depression since the 1930s in oil-production-dependent areas, which caused
many conservative home loans to go into default. Thus, FSLIC would have
suffered large (but probably not lethal) losses even if inflation and legislators
had never changed the savings and loan system.

(12) To be sure, even under the new system some possibilities remained
for regulators or accountants to stop some FSLIC hemorrhages earlier than they
actually did. But the accountants were selected and paid by the associations and
had professional loyalties to clients as well as concepts. They were understanda-
bly loath to enforce death sentences until the negative aspects of complex
situations became abundantly clear. And the regulators were overwhelmed by
horror cases, being suddenly given the working conditions and triage problems
of a M.A.S.H. unit, while receiving modest salaries. Moreover, the medical
analogy fits when stretched further. FSLIC was not allowed by Congress to take
much appropriate early corrective action. Just like certain savings and loan
managements, Congress did not want to face the consequences
for instance,
increased taxes of honest bookkeeping and rational action. Indeed, many
legislators intervened directly with the Federal Home Loan Bank system to
protect particular fools or crooks, or merely unlucky savings and loan operators,
from unpleasant consequences of insolvency. Thus FSLIC was not only like a
doctor working under M.A.S.H.-unit conditions but also like such a doctor

forbidden to cause new pain, however brief, or make any blood transfusions (as
distinguished from promises regarding future blood transfusions).

(13) The final result for FSLIC could easily be a loss of over $100 billion in
a continuously unfolding financial mess that is among the greatest in U.S. history.
Even some recently "rescued" associations, with new owners, are likely to cause
new FSLIC losses at some later time losses caused by the speculative
temperaments of new managements attracted by loose asset-deployment rules.
While the Federal Home Loan Bank Board failed to prevent the insolvency of
FSLIC, that insolvency was probably unpreventable, given its macroeconomic origin
and subsequent conduct of legislators. FSLIC's "rescues," although imperfect, were
probably as wise as could be expected under M.A.S.H.-unit conditions with no new
blood available. There is an O. Henry short story in which God treats as a false arrest
the bringing before Him of a miscreant young woman and sends the Heavenly
Policeman back to bring in the real culprit, the neglectful father who raised her
wrong. So also with the FSLIC mess. The important miscreants are not the crooks and
fools who are always with us or the overburdened industry regulators. The real
culprits are the ignorant, self-absorbed industry executives and state and federal
legislators who should have known better than to let the system be crafted as it was.
They also should have acted earlier to correct obvious errors, instead of becoming
accessories after the fact.

In retrospect, it is clear that some of the very worst behavior of all, in the years
when the FSLIC mess was created, was that of the United States League of Savings
Institutions. The League combined a blind loyalty to silly ideas with a blind loyalty to
member associations a loyalty which usually treated the admirable and the
despicable as if they were just the same. Acting with such "loyalty to a fault", the
League was an effective foe of proper regulatory and legislative response. We are
ashamed to report that during the whole period Mutual Savings paid its League dues
promptly and voiced little objection to League conduct. This paragraph is a minor
effort at atonement.

By silence we acquiesced wrongly as the League took antisocial positions which
it incorrectly believed consistent with the long-term interest of the savings and loan
industry. Our future behavior will be a little better: If the League does not act more
responsibly in the future, Mutual Savings will resign.

It does not follow, we think, from FSLIC's troubles that federal controllers are
likely to ruin Freddie Mac. FSLIC was very sick from causes outside the regulators'
control, whereas Freddie Mac is flourishing. And Congress, better later than never, is
now plainly chary of further loosening, and in fact desires to tighten, asset quality
standards in the savings and loan industry and its regulatory apparatus.

Freddie Mac is now regarded in the mortgage, mortgage-securities and debt-
issuing markets as a virtually risk-free government agency, even though its obliga-
tions are not technically backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. With
this enormous advantage, Freddie Mac's controllers can almost always get socially
constructive and financially rewarding results, provided they refrain from taking

11

significant risk of ruining Freddie Mac's credit. The annual dividend to private owners
is peanuts, a small fraction of 1%, compared to the financing Freddie Mac provides to
buyers of housing. The need for the dividend's safety and growth disciplines the
system in exactly the right way. There is no reason to change course. Moreover, the
right course, involving continued tough credit standards, has been clearly demon-
strated by the recent terrible home loan experience in oil-production-dependent
areas. Conventionally-sound home loans then went sour in massive quantities,
despite having been made by wise and honorable lenders to home buyers with good
jobs and loan-payment histories who made substantial down payments. Such experi-
ence reinforces the margin-of-safety principle required of highly leveraged institu-
tions that guarantee credit. Just as bank credit standards remained sound for a long
time after the horrors of the 1930s, home lending standards enforced by Freddie Mac
may remain sound for a long time after the good-home-loan losses of the 1980s. If
so, and if interest-rate-change risk is scrupulously minimized, Freddie Mac stock
could be a good long-term investment for Mutual Savings.

Our discussion of reasoning regarding investment in Freddie Mac is an anomaly
within the Berkshire Hathaway group. Normally, we do not disclose such reasoning.
We fear bad effects on future investment buying or investment selling. (We also
avoid display of our frequent mental inadequacies, but that is not the reason for the
policy.) We depart from usual practice only because we have acquired a full
investment position and we do not anticipate an increase in the legal limit which
prevents us from buying more stock of Freddie Mac. Under these conditions, we are
all for disclosure. But we are not recommending that Wesco shareholders purchase
Freddie Mac stock. We never want to encourage Wesco shareholders to copy
Wesco investments in their own personal accounts.

The first attempt at resolution by the federal government of the FSLIC insolvency
will be made when new laws are enacted in 1989. The new laws will probably
contain a combination of elements selected from the following list:

(1) sharp increase in deposit-insurance premiums payable to FSLIC;

(2) higher equity capital requirements for associations, with no credit for
intangibles, and with prompt asset reduction required when the equity-capital
minimum is breached;

(3) drastic reduction in investment powers to limit risky assets (including
"junk bonds"), plus close monitoring of risk-prone associations;

(4) strict limits on annual growth of savings deposits;

(5) bans on use of brokers to bring in deposits;

(6) tougher accounting standards, including more bans on "front-ending"
into reported income of fees paid in exchange for long-term commitments;

(7) tougher, more summary close-out procedures for associations, includ-
ing those that are impaired but not insolvent;

(8) more insulation of regulation and close-out cases from interference by
individual members of Congress;

12

(9) changes in control of regulation within the federal bureaucracy, aimed
at toughening of regulatory practice, including more concentration of resources
on obvious high-risk cases;
(10) a moratorium on approvals of new savings and loan charters; and
(11) more override of state law by federal law.

All the foregoing, except sharply higher deposit-insurance premiums, would clearly
tend to reduce future FSLIC losses and should, as a minimum, be included in any
half-sensible 1989 attempt to fix FSLIC. Payment to FSLIC of sharply higher deposit-
insurance premiums would provide mixed results. On the one hand, FSLIC would
get new revenue to help discharge liability from foolish insurance practices in the
past. On the other hand, it is not clear how much net new revenue would be
available. Sharply higher deposit-insurance premiums would also increase future
FSLIC losses by increasing pressure on associations to acquire higher-risk assets
promising the higher yields necessary to cover higher premiums. If deposit-insurance
premiums are increased by 14% per annum on total liabilities (which could happen)
it will sound trifling and not very threatening to solvency. But associations' net worth,
where it exists, is not owned by the government and may be withdrawn by its owners
from the savings and loan industry. And, ignoring revenue from assets matching net
worth, many associations now look at net profits vs. total liabilities at the rate of 14%
per annum as an unattainable dream. After all, the associations face aggressive
competing institutions which either have lower costs, like money-market funds
(which do not pay deposit-insurance premiums), or have more experience in
maximizing safe yields, like banks. Starting from this not-so-hot competitive position
and seeking not-so-obvious ways to stretch yields by 14% per annum, many associa-
tions would, almost surely, be pressed into significant incremental losses. Others
would quit the savings and loan business because of below-market returns being
earned on shareholders' equity, and any equity capital withdrawn from the system
would no longer "buffer" FSLIC against losses.

The would-be FSLIC fixers, as they set increased deposit-insurance premiums,
will face the same basic question faced by a keeper of sheep. But, unlike the
sheepkeeper, the government lacks knowledge to guide prediction of the point at
which additional closeness of shearing will be contrary to the interests of the shearer.
This leaves an important question: When you don't know for sure what the sheep
can stand, how much safety margin do you leave before you set the shears, shear the
whole herd, and send it forth to fare as it will?

The politics of the current scene seem to us to create more wishful thinking than
sound thinking. We do not believe that the legislation adopted in 1989 will be likely
to prevent recurrence of big trouble at FSLIC.

First, consider again the record of our modern legislators, the would-be FSLIC
fixers. They started with a system designed to limit association insolvencies by both:
(1) protecting associations from full competition (a brutal force in a
fungible commodity business, with money being the ultimate fungible commod-
ity) and full taxes; and
(2) requiring associations to deploy assets in a very low-risk way.

13

Despite noting that this combination of carrot and stick kept the donkey under
reasonable control for a long time, as it was designed to do after the insolvencies
which followed excesses in the 1920s, the modern legislators actually removed the
stick from the loss-control system in an attempt to compensate for the loss of the
carrot. They also neglected, for a considerable period after interest rates of liabilities
were unleashed, the obvious need to allow floating interest rates on home loan
assets. And they acted, while they did this, as if they preferred to entice new thieves
and megalomaniacs into coverage by federal deposit insurance and also to expand,
as fast as possible, the operations of thieves and megalomaniacs already insured.
Then, as FSLIC losses mounted, $10 billion or so at a time, the legislators delayed,
and delayed, while going along with almost every form of foolish, paper-it-over
expediency. And now, finally, we hear many cries for scapegoats in the "any one but
me" category. We hear almost no cries for re-examination of assumptions (including
re-examination in the form of (i) study of savings and loan systems which have
worked better, like England's and (ii) consideration of alternatives such as forcing
the private pension system, a huge savings pool which still possesses the carrot of tax
exemption and can better bear interest rate crunches, to commit a share of assets to
home loans, instead of high-turnover stock trading and the super-leveraging of
corporate America, and (iii) consideration of other more extreme alternatives which
fit modern facts). Instead, the first proposal, meeting tacit acceptance, is that any
federal fix must qualify for mickey-mouse, off-budget accounting which will increase
ultimate federal cost. This is not a fixing record which creates confidence in the
fixers.

Second, consider the difficulty of the problem faced. As suggested earlier, that
problem may well be a "lalapaloosa" which would not yield to the efforts of fixers
much better than those we have. When you mix certain elements in a certain way
you get sulfuric acid, wish it or not, and there are similar "impotency principles" in
microeconomic systems. Under modern conditions it is quite conceivably impossible
to create a deposit-insured savings and loan system, successful over the long term,
which includes all the elements (for instance "capped" interest rates for borrowers
in long-term loans) that a politically sensitive body will want to preserve. Thus the
legislative fix attempted in 1989 may be only a more sophisticated version of the
attempt of the rustic legislator, aiming at facilitation of education, who proposed a
law rounding Pi to an even three. The derision of this example is aimed not so much
at our legislators as at the normal working of the human mind. In the presence of
complexity the ability to unlearn a once-successful idea is seldom found. Max
Planck, the Nobel laureate, noted that even in physics, wherein the ablest of
mankind are sworn as their highest duty to improve ideas to fit facts, you never really
changed the minds of most of the old professors. Instead, the wide acceptance of
correct new ideas had to wait for new professors who had less to unlearn.

Our views are that the problem faced is hard and that everyone has "unlearning
difficulty." These views, of course, may have been shaped by our own thinking
record. If the problem is not difficult, and if unlearning is easy, we would have
14

difficulty excusing ourselves for the clobbering Mutual Savings took from interest rate
change in the early 1980s.

If our predictions are right, Wesco shareholders can pretty well count on Mutual
Savings being harmed not only in 1989 but also at a second and later time. In each
case we will face both new deposit-insurance costs and reductions of investment
powers caused by insolvencies of a type Mutual Savings never got near.

As legislative changes are made Mutual Savings is likely to be hurt by all three of
the following:
(1) wise changes in laws;
(2) unwise changes caused by the problems being more difficult than
contentious legislative bodies are able or willing to think through; and
(3) unwise changes caused by vindictive legislative reaction to the size of
the mess.

We fear changes in the last category because we so often see verifications of the iron
prediction (roughly recalled) of the Victorian prime minister: "Those who will not
face improvements because they are changes will face changes that are not
improvements."

At least as we operate it, Mutual Savings, ex its investment in Freddie Mac,
continues to have mediocre long-term prospects.

Precision Steel
The businesses of Wesco's Precision Steel subsidiary, located in the outskirts of
Chicago at Franklin Park, Illinois, contributed $3,167,000 to normal net operating
income in 1988, up 29% compared with $2,450,000 in 1987. The increase in 1988
profit occurred in spite of a small decline in pounds of product sold. Revenues were
up 14% to $62,694,000.

Under the skilled leadership of David Hillstrom, Precision Steel's businesses in
1988 continued to provide an extraordinary return.

The good financial results have an underlying reason, although not one strong
enough to cause the results achieved in the absence of superb management.
Precision Steel's businesses, despite their mundane nomenclature, are steps ad-
vanced on the quality scale from mere commodity-type businesses. Many customers
of Precision Steel, needing dependable supply on short notice of specialized grades
of high-quality, cold-rolled strip steel, reasonable prices, technical excellence in
cutting to order, and remembrance when supplies are short, rightly believe that they
have no fully comparable alternative in Precision Steel's market area. Indeed, many
customers at locations remote from Chicago (for instance, Los Angeles) seek out
Precision Steel's service.

It is not common that steel warehouses have results like Precision Steel's, even
in a generally good year like 1988. What we have watched under David Hillstrom's
leadership is boring, repetitive excellence, year after year. We love to see it and to be
associated with him.

15

Wesco-Financial Insurance Company
A new business was added to the Wesco group in 1985, in co-venture with
Wesco's 80% owner and ultimate parent corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
With the enthusiastic approval of all Wesco's directors, including substantial
Wesco shareholders in the Peters and Caspers families, without whose approval such
action would not have been taken, Wesco in 1985 invested $45 million in cash
equivalents in a newly organized, wholly owned insurance company, Wesco-
Financial Insurance Company ("Wes-FIC"). Another $45 million was invested in
1986 and 1987.

The new subsidiary, Wes-FIC, has reinsured, through another Berkshire
Hathaway insurance company subsidiary as intermediary-without-profit, 2% of the
entire book of insurance business of the long-established Fireman's Fund Corp.
(listed on the NYSE). Wes-FIC thereby assumed the benefits and burdens of
Fireman's Fund's prices, costs and losses under a contract covering all insurance
premiums earned by Fireman's Fund during a four-year period commencing Septem-
ber 1, 1985. The arrangement puts Wes-FIC in almost exactly the position it would
have been in if it, instead of Fireman's Fund, had directly written 2% of the business.
Differences in results should occur only from the investment side of insurance, as
Wes-FIC, instead of Fireman's Fund, invests funds from "float" generated. Wes-FIC's
share of premiums earned in 1988 exceeded $62 million.

Wes-FIC in 1988 began to write direct business, as distinguished from reinsur-
ance. It is now licensed in Nebraska, Utah and lowa, but it wrote only $412,000 in
direct premiums, all surplus lines coverage (permitted for non-admitted insurers) in
Alabama. Earned direct premiums were $108,000.

Wes-FIC's "normal" net income for 1988 was $12,094,000, versus $9,459,000
for 1987. The net "normal" income figures excluded securities gains, net of income
taxes, of $6,071,000 (including $4,836,000 realized on sale of Wes-FIC's 9% equity
interest in Bowery Savings Bank) in 1988, compared with only $9,000 in securities
gains in 1987. These items are reported as "Net Gains on Sales of Securities," below.
Wes-FIC's net income benefitted by about $260,000 in 1988, versus $1 million in
1987, because of an unusual adjustment to its income tax provision caused by the
Tax Reform Act of 1986.

It is in the nature of even the finest casualty insurance businesses that in keeping
their accounts they must estimate and deduct all future costs and losses from
premiums already earned. Uncertainties inherent in this undertaking make financial
statements more mere "best honest guesses" than is typically the case with accounts
of non-insurance-writing corporations. And the reinsurance portion of the casualty
insurance business, because it contains one or more extra links in the loss-reporting
chain, usually creates more accounting uncertainty than the non-reinsurance portion.
Wesco shareholders should remain aware, not only of the inherent imperfections of
Wes-FIC's accounting, but also of the inherent cyclicality of its business.

Wesco continues to expect a reasonable return on its investment over the four
years of the Fireman's Fund reinsurance contract. However, the Fireman's Fund
contract ends with August in 1989, which will leave Wes-FIC with a "longage" of
16

capital and a shortage of good insurance business. This is not a desired position, but
there are worse ones.

All Other "Normal" Net Operating Income
All other "normal" net operating income, net of interest paid and general
corporate expenses, increased to $3,609,000 in 1988 from $1,808,000 in 1987.
Sources were (1) rents ($2,436,000 gross, excluding rent from Mutual Savings) from
Wesco's Pasadena office building block (predominantly leased to outsiders although
Mutual Savings is the ground floor tenant) and (2) interest and dividends from cash
equivalents and marketable securities held by Precision Steel and its subsidiaries and
at the parent company level.

Net Gains On Sales Of Securities
Wesco's aggregate net gains on sales of securities, combined, after income
taxes, increased to $6,525,000 in 1988 from $1,208,000 in 1987. As noted above,
$6,071,000 of these gains were realized in the Wes-FIC insurance subsidiary.

Salomon Inc
On October 1, 1987 Wesco and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries
purchased 100,000 newly issued shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, without par value, of Salomon Inc ("Salomon"), at a cost of $100 million.
Salomon's primary business is transacted by its subsidiary, Salomon Brothers, a
leading securities firm. Our investment was part of a $700 million transaction in
which other subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco's parent, invested $600
million. Principal terms of the transaction included the following: (1) the preferred
stock pays dividends at the annual rate of 9%; (2) each preferred share, purchased at
a cost of $1,000, will be convertible into 26.31579 shares of Salomon common stock
on or after October 31, 1990, or earlier if certain extraordinary events occur; and (3)
the preferred stock is subject to mandatory redemption provisions requiring the
retirement, at $1,000 per share plus accrued dividends, of 20% of the issue on each
October 31, beginning in 1995, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain
outstanding.

At the stated conversion price of the preferred stock, a profit (subject to certain
procedural requirements) will be realizable whenever, after October 31, 1990, the
common stock of Salomon (listed NYSE) trades at over $38 per share. At the time of
our commitment to buy the new preferred, the common stock of Salomon was
selling in the low 30s. However, shortly after the ink dried on Wesco's new stock
certificates, the October 19, 1987 "Black Monday" stock market crash occurred,
which caused temporary but substantial operating losses plus a lowered credit rating
at Salomon. Although Salomon, among securities firms, suffered only its rough share
of the general debacle, its common stock at one time after the crash traded as low as
$1658.

By the end of 1988 Salomon common stock was trading at $24% after much
constructive adjustment of Salomon's business to new conditions.
Salomon's credit as a potential source of preferred dividends and stock redemp-
tions improved during its 1988 recovery, when generally available dividend rates on
17

preferred stock were roughly stable. With Wesco's preferred stock now one year
shorter in contractual duration, and its conversion privilege enhanced in value during
the year, we believe that the fair market value of Wesco's investment was somewhat
in excess of its cost, and that the aggregate amount of any such excess was not
material to Wesco, at December 31, 1988.
Berkshire Hathaway's Chairman, Warren Buffett, and the undersigned joined the
board of Salomon on October 28, 1987, and are very pleased with the new
association.

New Subsidiary
At the close of 1988, Wesco acquired 80% of the stock of New America
Electrical Corporation ("New America Electric") for a price of $8,200,000. Of this
price $7,165,000 was cash paid to a liquidating trust for the former shareholders of
New America Fund and $1,035,000 was a ten-year, 10% note payable to Glen
Mitchel, CEO of New America Electric, who retains the 20% of New America Electric
not acquired by Wesco. The pattern of this acquisition is getting to be a common one
within the Berkshire Hathaway group, where we are willing to be an 80% owner in
many a business we would not be in if we did not admire and trust people who retain
the other 20% and are expected to continue to operate the business, with little help
and no hindrance from us.

Glen Mitchel is a long-time friend and trusted and admired business associate of
the undersigned, Wesco's CEO. Indeed, because Wesco's CEO and his family
owned more of New America Electric than Wesco, our whole transaction was
approved by the Wesco board with the recommendation and participation of
Warren Buffett, CEO and major shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco's
parent company. Mr. Buffett had no financial interest in New America Electric, and
he, plus Messrs. Munger and Mitchel, all believed that $10,250,000 was a fair
valuation for 100% of New America Electric at yearend 1988.

New America Electric is a manufacturer of various electrical products including
switchgear, circuit breakers, lighting ballasts and starters and electrical equipment for
marinas and mobile home and recreational vehicle parks. Its facilities are in Orange
County, California.

New America Electric has a present book net worth of about $6,400,000,
including over $2,500,000 in cash, and a long history of earning high returns on
capital, but with current earnings reduced by conditions approaching those of severe
price war. Fortunately, New America Electric is a very low-cost producer. Its size is
not material (in accounting parlance) to Wesco; so we have not yet determined
future reporting practice. At a minimum, essential information will be discussed each
year in the Annual Report's Letter to Shareholders.

This acquisition became available to Wesco because Glen Mitchel preferred
minority (20%) ownership of a Berkshire Hathaway group subsidiary instead of
dominant 30% ownership in New America Electric, with all other New America
Electric stock pretty well scattered through a new public offering, which was the
alternative offered. We will try to deserve Glen Mitchel's confidence.
18

Consolidated Balance Sheet and Related Discussion
Wesco's consolidated balance sheet (1) retains a strength befitting a company
whose consolidated net worth supports large outstanding promises to others and
(2) reflects a continuing slow pace of acquisition of additional businesses because
few are found available, despite constant search, at prices deemed rational from the
standpoint of Wesco shareholders.
As indicated in the accompanying financial statements, the aggregate market
value of Wesco's marketable equity securities was higher than their aggregate
carrying value at December 31, 1988 by about $54 million, up significantly from
about $6 million one year earlier. The consolidated aggregate market value of all
marketable securities, including bonds and other fixed-income securities, exceeded
aggregate carrying value by about $62 million. As earlier noted, about $57 million of
this unrealized appreciation lies within the savings and loan subsidiary, and includes
$49.5 million of appreciation in stock of Freddie Mac.
Wesco's Pasadena real estate, a full block (containing (1) about 125,000 first-
class net rentable square feet, including Mutual Savings' space, in a modern office
building, plus (2) an additional net rentable 34,000 square feet of economically
marginal space in old buildings requiring expensive improvement), has a market
value substantially in excess of carrying value, demonstrated by (1) mortgage debt
($4,751,000 at 9.25% fixed) against this real estate now exceeding its depreciated
carrying value ($2,937,000) in Wesco's balance sheet at December 31, 1988, and
(2) substantial current net cash flow (about $1 million per year) to Wesco after debt
service on the mortgage. The modern office building is 99% rented, despite a glut of
vacant office space in Pasadena. We charge just-below-standard rents and run the
building as a sort of first-class club for tenants we admire. With these practices, a
prime location and superior parking facilities, we anticipate future increases in cash
flow, but at no better rate than the rate of inflation.
Wesco remains in a prudent position when total debt is compared to total
shareholders' equity and total liquid assets. Wesco's practice has been to do a certain
amount of long-term borrowing in advance of specific need, in order to have
maximum financial flexibility to face both hazards and opportunities.
It is expected that the balance sheet strength of the consolidated enterprise will
in due course be used in one or more business extensions. The extension activity,
however, requires patience, as suitable opportunities are seldom present.
As indicated in Schedule I accompanying Wesco's financial statements, invest-
ments, both those in the savings and loan and insurance subsidiaries and those held
temporarily elsewhere pending sale to fund business extension, tend to be concen-
trated in very few places. Through this practice of concentration of investments,
better understanding is sought with respect to the few decisions made.
The ratio of Wesco's annual reported consolidated net income to reported
consolidated shareholders' equity, about 10% in 1986-88, was dependent to a
significant extent on securities gains, irregular by nature.
The considerable, and higher than desired, liquidity of Wesco's consolidated
financial position as this is written does not result from our forecast that business
19

conditions are about to worsen, or that interest rates are about to rise, or that
common stock prices are about to fall. Wesco's condition results, instead, from our
simply not finding opportunities for more aggressive use of capital with which we are
comfortable.

Wesco continues to try more to profit from always remembering the obvious
than from grasping the esoteric. Such an approach, while it has worked fairly well on
average in the past and will probably work fairly well over the long-term future, is
bound to encounter periods of dullness and disadvantage as it limits action.

Moreover, our approach continues to be applied to no great base position.
Wesco has only a tiny fraction of its total intrinsic value in businesses with enough
commercial advantage in place to assure permanent high future returns on capital
employed. In contrast, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wesco's parent corporation, has a
larger proportion of its intrinsic value in durable high-return businesses.

Some historical explanation for the current situation should be repeated here.
When Wesco's parent corporation acquired control, Wesco's activities were almost
entirely limited to holding (1) some surplus cash, plus (2) a multi-branch savings
and loan association which had many very long-term, fixed-rate mortgages, offset by
interest-bearing demand deposits. The acquisition of this intrinsically disadvanta-
geous position was unwisely made, alternative opportunities considered, because
the acquirer (including the signer of this letter) was overly influenced by a price
considered to be moderately below liquidating value. Under such circumstances,
acquisitions have a way of producing, on average, for acquirers who are not quick-
turn operators, low to moderate long-term results. This happens because any
advantage from a starting "bargain" gets swamped by effects from change-resistant
mediocrity in the purchased business. Such normal effects have not been completely
avoided at Wesco, despite some successful activities, including a large gain in 1985
from an investment in General Foods.

A corporation like Wesco, with no significant proportion of intrinsic value in
great businesses, continues to be like a tortoise in a race of hares. And, as we have
plainly demonstrated, this particular tortoise is not very sprightly.

On January 26, 1989, Wesco increased its regular quarterly dividend from 1812
cents per share to 19½ cents per share, payable March 7, 1989, to shareholders of
record as of the close of business on February 10, 1989.

This annual report contains Form 10-K, a report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and includes detailed information about Wesco and its
subsidiaries as well as audited financial statements bearing extensive footnotes. As
usual, your careful attention is sought with respect to these items.

February 24, 1989

20

Charles Munger
Charles T. Munger
Chairman of the Board