BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING 2020 
Streamed by Yahoo Finance. 
Warren Buffett: 
This is the annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway. It doesn’t look like an annual 
meeting. It doesn’t feel exactly like an annual meeting, and it particularly doesn’t 
feel like an annual meeting because my partner of 60 years, Charlie Munger, is not 
sitting up here. I think most of the people that come to our meeting really come to 
listen to Charlie. But I want to assure you, Charlie at 96 is in fine shape. His mind is 
as good as ever. His voice is as strong as ever, but it just didn’t seem like a good 
idea to have him make the trip to Omaha for this meeting. Charlie, Charlie is really 
taking to this new life. He’s added Zoom to his repertoire. So he has meetings every 
day with various people, and he’s just skipped right by me technologically. But that 
really isn’t such a huge achievement. It’s more like kind of stepping over a peanut or 
something. But nevertheless, I want to assure you, Charlie is in fine shape, and he’ll 
be back next year. We’ll try to have everything in the show that we normally have 
next year. 
Ajit Jain also, who is the vice chairman in charge of insurance, is safely in New 
York. Again, it just did not seem worthwhile for him to travel to Omaha for this 
meeting. But on my left we do have Greg Abel, and Greg is the vice chairman in 
charge of all operations except insurance. So Greg manages a business that has 
more than 150 billion in revenues and crosses across dozens of industries and has 
more than 300,000 employees. He’s been at that job a couple of years, and frankly, 
I don’t know what I’d be doing today if I didn’t have Ajit and Greg handling the duties 
that I was doing only about a quarter as well a couple of years ago. So I owe a lot of 
thanks to Greg, and you’ll get exposed to him more as this meeting goes along. 
The meeting will be divided into four parts, and in a moment or two, I will talk - sort 
of a monologue with slides. I’ve never really used slides before. I’ve taught college 
classes intermittently but pretty steadily from age 21 to age 88, and I never recall 
using a single slide. But who says you can’t teach an old dog new tricks? So we’ll 
see whether you can or not. I’ve got a number of slides, and I would like to take you 
through those. The first section, which we’ll start in just a minute, and then we’ll 
move on to a brief recap of Berkshire’s first quarter results. 
Now we put those up in the 10Q, which was posted on the internet and 
berkshirehathaway.com this morning. There’s lots and lots of detail in there, so I’m 
not going to go through that. I’ll point out one or two things that may be of interest to 
you, and I’ll talk a little bit about what we did in April, which is something that is new 
to Berkshire, to be that current, but I’ll give you that. Then we’ll have the formal 
meeting, which will take maybe 15 or 20 minutes, and from there we’ll go to Becky 
Quick, who for a couple of hours will grill me and Greg on questions she’s selected 
from a huge batch that I’m told she’s received. They we’ll go to Carol Loomis and 
Andrew Ross Sorkin as well as to Becky, but to simplify things, we’ve consolidated 

all those questions that Becky will ask. Like I say, we’ll go for a couple of hours, and 
there’s no specified cutoff time present. We’ll just see how things develop. 
What’s, of course, on everybody’s mind the last two months or so is what’s going to 
be the situation in terms of health in the United States and what’s going to be the 
situation in terms of the economy in the United States in the months and perhaps 
the years to come. I don’t really have anything to add to your knowledge on health. 
In school, I did okay in accounting, but I was a disaster in biology. I’m learning 
about these various matters the same way you are. 
I think, personally, I feel extraordinarily good about being able to listen to Dr. Fauci, 
who I had never heard of a year ago. But I think we’re very, very fortunate as a 
country to have somebody at 79 years of age who appears to be able to work 24 
hours a day and keep a good humor about him and communicate in a very, very 
straightforward manner about fairly complex subjects and tell you when he knows 
something and when he doesn’t know something. So I’m not going to talk about any 
political figures at all or politics generally this afternoon, but I do feel that I owe a 
huge debt of gratitude to Dr. Fauci for educating and informing me, actually along 
with my friend Bill Gates, too, as to what’s going on. I know I get it from a straight 
shooter when I get it from either one of those. So thank you, Dr. Fauci. 
When this hit us, and as I sit here in this auditorium with 17 or 18,000 empty seats, 
the last time I was here, it was absolutely packed. Creighton was playing Villanova, 
and there were 17 or 18,000, whatever it holds, it was full, and there wasn’t one 
person in that crowd - this was in January - there wasn’t one person in that crowd 
that didn’t think that March Madness wasn’t going to occur. It’s been a flip of a 
switch in a huge way in terms of national behavior, the national psyche. It’s 
dramatic. When we started on this journey, which we didn’t ask for, it seemed to me 
that there was an extraordinarily wide variety of possibilities on both the health side 
and on the economic side. There was DEFCON 5 on one side and DEFCON 1 on 
the other side, and nobody really knows, of course, all the possibilities that there 
are, and they don’t know what probability factor to stick on them. 
But in this particular situation, it did seem to me that there was an extraordinary 
range of things that could happen on the health side and an extraordinary range in 
terms of the economy. Of course, they intersect and affect each other. So, they’re 
bouncing off each other as you go along. I would say, again, I don’t know anything 
you don’t know about health matters, but I do think the range of possibilities has 
narrowed down somewhat in that respect. We know we’re not getting a best case, 
and we know we’re not getting a worst case. The possibility initially of the virus was 
hard to evaluate, and it’s so hard to evaluate. There’s a lot of things we’ve learned 
about it and a lot of things we know we don’t know, but at least we know what we 
don’t know. Some very smart people are working on it, and we’re learning as we go 
along. 

But the virus obviously has been very transmissible, but on the good side, it’s not 
that good, but it is not as lethal as it might have been. We had the Spanish flu in 
1918 and my dad and four siblings and his parents went through it, and they have a 
terrific story in the March 15th edition of the Omaha World Herald that you can go to 
on omaha.com and look up. It’s also on the first page I believe on Google, if you put 
in Spanish flu Omaha. During that particular time, in maybe four months or so, 
Omaha had 974, I believe, deaths, and that was a half of 1% of the population. That 
figure wasn’t greatly different than around the country. So you think about half of 1% 
of the population now, you’re talking 1,700,000 or thereabouts people and 
fortunately in terms of the worst case, this does not appear to -- in fact, I think you 
can almost rule out it being as lethal as the Spanish flu was. But it’s very, very 
transmissible. Of course, we have the problem, we don’t know the denominator in 
terms of exactly how lethal it is because we don’t know how many people have had 
it and didn’t know they had it. 
But in any event, the range of probabilities on health narrowed down somewhat, I 
would say the range of probabilities, or possibilities, on the economic side are still 
extraordinarily wide. We do not know exactly what happens when you voluntarily 
shut down a substantial portion of your society. In 2008 and ’09, our economic train 
went off the tracks, and there were some reasons why the roadbed was weak in 
terms of the banks and all of that sort of thing. But anyway, this time we just pulled 
the train off the tracks and put it on a siding, and I don’t really know of any parallel 
in terms of very, very – well, the most important country in the world, most 
productive, huge population - in effect sidelining its economy and its workforce and 
obviously and unavoidably creating a huge amount of anxiety and changing 
people’s psyche and causing them to somewhat lose their bearings in many cases, 
understandably. 
This is quite an experiment and we may know the answer to most of the questions 
reasonably soon, but we may not know the answers to some very important 
questions for many years. So, it still has this enormous range of possibilities. But 
even facing that, I would like to talk to you about the economic future of the country 
because I remain convinced as I have. I was convinced of this in World War II. I was 
convinced of it during the Cuban missile crisis, 9/11, the financial crisis, that nothing 
can basically stop America. We faced great problems in the past. We haven’t faced 
this exact problem. In fact, we haven’t really faced anything that quite resembles 
this problem, but we faced tougher problems, and the American miracle, the 
American magic, has always prevailed, and it will do so again. 
I would like to take you through a little history, to essentially make my case, that if 
you were to pick one time to be born and one place to be born, and you didn’t know 
what your sex was going to be, you didn’t know what your intelligence would be, you 
didn’t know what your special talents or special deficiencies would be, that if you 
could pick that one time, you would not pick 1720, you would not pick 1820, you 
would not pick 1920. You’d pick today, and you would pick America, and of course, 
the interesting thing about it is that ever since America was organized in 1789, 

when George Washington took the oath of office, people have wanted to come here. 
Can you imagine that? For 231 years, there’s always been people that have wanted 
to come here. 
My friend, I think, has just jumped the gun just a shade on putting slide one up. But 
I’m going to call for some slides as we go along. But the interesting thing about this 
country is -- what is on slide one? Let’s put it up. This is an extraordinarily young 
country. Now I’m comparing it to a couple of guys that are pretty old, but when you 
think about the fact that my age, Charlie’s age, our life experience, and then we’ll 
throw in this young guy over here, Greg Abel, and if our life experiences combined 
exceed the life of the United States, we are a very, very young country. But what 
we’ve accomplished is miraculous. Now just think of this - this little spot in history. 
If we go to slide two, I’ve tried to estimate -- well, let’s go back. Stay with slide two, 
but the population in 1790, and we had 3.9 million people here. It’s funny, when you 
look up the census figures, you find out that they had a big fire in the Department of 
Commerce building in 1921, so they lost a lot of the census records. So there’s 
some things where there’s a few gaps, but there were 3.9 million people in the 
United States. Actually, I’ve got .6 million - it’s closer to .7 million. 700,000 of those 
people were slaves at the time. But those 3.9 million people were one half of 1% of 
the population of the planet. 
If you’d asked any of those 3.9 million people, any of them to imagine what life 
would be like 231 years later, even the most optimistic person, they could have 
been drinking heavily and even had a little pot, and they still could not in their 
wildest dreams have thought that in three lifetimes, Charlie’s, mine and Greg’s, that 
in that period you would be looking at a country with 280 million vehicles shuffling 
around its roads, airplanes, maybe not today so much, but they’ll be back again, 
they were flying people at 40,000 feet coast to coast in five hours. That great 
universities would exist in one state after another, and great hospital systems, and 
entertainment would be delivered to people in a way nobody could have dreamt of 
in the 1790s. This country in 231 years has exceeded anybody’s dreams. 
I went to the internet trying to prepare for this, and if you’ll move to the next slide, I 
tried to find out what was the wealth of the country in 1789, our starting point. I 
punched in United States wealth. I tried 1789, I tried 1790. I thought it might be a 
little easier in terms of a round year, and I think four million or so references came 
up. I didn’t look at all four million, but I can tell you the data collection in those early 
days on many fronts was not anything like today. You really can’t find what I would 
consider a reliable figure. You can find out how many mules there were in the 
country and a few things like that and try to add them up. But in real estate, when 
you’re looking at houses or apartment houses or office buildings, they’re each 
slightly different than each other, but they looked at comparable sales. 
So it’s hard to find a lot of countries that have been sold where the wealth has been 
estimated. But it was interesting to go back and think about the fact that in 1803 we 

purchased for $15 million, we made the Louisiana Purchase. Now that’s a little later 
than 1789, but that’s the best comp, as they say in real estate. That’s the best comp 
we could find for land mass, anyway. When we made that purchase, that was equal 
incidentally to about a quarter of 800,000 plus square miles. But it was about a 
quarter of what the lower 48 States now contain. So we bought about a quarter of 
the lower 48 for the $15 million back in 1803. If you live in Texas and your 
grandfather is close to dying, and he calls the grandchildren, the children around 
him. In his final words, he always says, Don’t sell the mineral rights. Well, the 
French sold us the mineral rights on that $15 million deal as well. So we got that 
whole strip there. We got all of Kansas, essentially all of Oklahoma, and they’ve 
produced 21 billion barrels of oil for us and a lot of natural gas since the purchase. 
One of the sidelights is that we paid our $15 million for the Louisiana Purchase. We 
paid 3 million of it, 20% of it, we paid with 200,000 ounces of gold, valued at 15 
bucks an ounce, and that three million that the French took. We got South Dakota 
as part of the Louisiana Purchase, and the home state mine up there, before it 
closed, produced well over 40 million ounces of gold. And 40 million ounces of gold, 
that comes to about $60 billion worth. Like I say, 200,000 ounces took care of 20% 
of our purchase price. So the Louisiana Purchase was a bargain, but it’s what the 
going price was for 800,000 square miles, I guess, at the time, and three cents an 
acre. So I decided by playing around with various numbers such as that, that as a 
reasonable estimate of the worth of the country in 1789, a billion was not a crazy 
figure. Now, if I’d been an academician or something, I would’ve put 1,107,400,000, 
something like that. I would have made it look respectable. But it’s a wild guess. But 
it’s not a crazy figure. 
So what has happened, let’s move on to the next slide, to the wealth of the country 
since then? Here we have some figures that come out pretty regularly. Well, they do 
come out regularly where the Federal Reserve estimates the net household worth of 
people in the United States, all of the households in the United States. You can look 
these up, there’s 30 trillion of stocks, and I think maybe single-family homes, what 
are there? There’s 82 million or so owner occupied single families, maybe 45 million 
rental apartments and so on. So you start adding all these up, and the Federal 
Reserve tells us, and I invite you to look at the data, it’s kind of interesting, that we 
now in the United States, 231 years later, we have a hundred trillion -- we have 
more than a hundred trillion of household wealth, even though the stock market’s 
gone down somewhat since the last quarter report. 
So you say, Well, we’ve had a lot of inflation, everything. We actually, in the United 
States, for the first half of our existence, roughly, we didn’t really have that much 
inflation. We had inflationary periods and deflationary periods, but the general price 
level did not change that dramatically. But I will assume again for this calculation 
that there’s been 20 for one inflation. It’s way less than that in many commodities, 
and it’s very hard to measure and talk about equivalent benefits from different kinds 
of products and so on and costs. But I think it’s reasonable to say that the United 
States in real terms has increased in wealth at something in the area of 5,000 for 

one, which is really, it’s mind blowing. 5,000 for one in real terms, in a country that 
had a half a percent of the -- and a bunch of raw land. But a vision that to 
accomplish that in 231 years, there’s just no denying that that’s beyond what 
anybody could have dreamt earlier. But it was not done, and this is important, 
because we’ve now hit a bump in the road. It was not done without some very, very 
serious bumps in the road. It was not 231 years of steady progress. As a matter of 
fact, we had been in the birth of this country, we’d been into it, what, 72 years.  And 
if we go to the next slide, 1861 we now had about 31 million people. The 1960 
Census showed around 31 million people or thereabouts in the country and four 
million of them were slaves, and we had never really resolved the very much 
unfinished business of what was involved in compromises in 1789, and we’ll have 
more to say about that later. But we had something that not too many countries 
experienced, and if you had told people in 1789 that in 72 years, you were going to 
have a division that caused the President of the United States at Gettysburg to say 
that “Testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and dedicated, can 
long endure.” Imagine the President of the United States wondering aloud whether 
the country that he was presiding over could long endure, only 72 years or 74 years 
at Gettysburg, had taken place. 
So while this marvelous dream was being played out, roughly a third of the way 
through it, we face this really moment of decision, and we entered into a contest 
that, if we’ll go to the next slide, I made an estimate that literally killed roughly 6% of 
the males in the country who were between 18 and 60. I’m assuming that there 
were more than 600,000 deaths in the war. I think it’s a reasonable estimate that 
that the 18 to 60 group of males were by far the great proportion. So imagine 6% of 
your working prime age males in a country are wiped out in four years. So when we 
look at the progress of this country and we think of our own problems now, I just ask 
you to ponder and we’ll move to the next slide. That would be equivalent today to 
having four million males in that same age group similarly wiped out. So that was 
one incredible interruption which this country nevertheless worked through while 
compiling this American dream that is one of the wonders of the world, perhaps the 
wonder of the world in many senses. 
So let’s move on to another crisis of a different sort that hit the country, and this, of 
course, is the 1929 crash, which led to the Great Depression. Here the Dow Jones 
Average, which we’ll use through this. At that time, that’s the one everybody paid 
attention to, actually, the second most important average at that time, if you look at 
the papers, was the New York Times Average, which has disappeared, and of 
course the Standard and Poor’s was probably regarded as the superior yardstick. 
But the Dow Jones is a perfectly adequate yardstick. On September 3rd, 1929, the 
Dow Jones Average closed at 381.17, and people were very happy and buying 
stocks on margin that worked wonderfully. 
The Roaring Twenties had a good feeling to it with the auto coming of age and the 
day of air travel coming along and all kinds of new appliances and the telephone 
getting wider use, believe it or not, hadn’t really caught on that much prior thereto. 

But the movies were coming on. It was a happy place. Then, of course, if we move 
to the next slide, we’ll look at what happened in the couple of months after 
September 3rd and the Dow Jones Average almost got cut in half, and that was 
pretty impressive until we had this recent situation where in a shorter period of time 
we lost about a third. But the crash, and there’s a great book about it called The 
Great Crash by John Kenneth Galbraith. Let me interject one little plug here. 
There’s a small business in Omaha, and I hate what truncating this meeting or 
changing so dramatically has done to many of the businesses in Omaha, because I 
think small business is beneficial -- we’re the beneficiaries of a really --  they got a 
lot of business with the Berkshire meeting, and they’re going to get it in the future, 
but they suffer during a period like this, and they just had a story about The 
Bookworm. 
Well, The Bookworm, if you buy any books that come out of anything I recommend, 
think about just put in Bookworm in Omaha, and The Great Crash is a wonderful 
book of mine, John Kenneth Galbraith describes it, but I would like to get into a bit 
of a personal note which will have some relevance, not too much, but some 
relevance to the story of the Great Depression, because in 1929 my dad, who was 
26 years of age then, was employed as a security salesman by a local small bank, 
and he sold stocks and bonds, but mostly he sold stocks. 
And when stocks fall 48%, and they were selling them to people a few months ago, 
you really don’t feel like going out and facing those same people.  So I think what 
my dad probably liked to do was, they say now, shelter in place, which means stay 
at home, and there really wasn’t that much in our house. We just had a small yard, it 
was wintertime anyway, and my dad wouldn’t have been puttering around the yard 
anyway, and the television wasn’t there, and he and my mother got along very well. 
So under those conditions, if you’ll turn to the next slide, I was born about nine 
months later, but at that time, I was actually born on August 30th, but the stock 
market was closed that day, and so I’m using the previous day figures, but I didn’t 
notice at the time that the market was closed, but the stock market had actually 
recovered over 20% during that nine and a half month period or thereabouts. 
People did not think in the fall of 1930, they did not think they were in a Great 
Depression. They thought it was a recession very much like had occurred at least a 
dozen times, although not always when stock markets were important, but we’d had 
many recessions in the United States over that time, and this did not look like it was 
something dramatically out of the ordinary. For a while, actually for about 10 days 
after my birth, the stock market actually managed to go up all of 1 or 2% there in 
those 10 days, but that’s the last day. 
Well, from that point, if you’ll turn to the next slide, the stock market went from a 
level of 240 to 241 -- which was a noticeable decline, because if somebody had 
given me $1,000 on the day I was born, and I’d bought stocks with it, and bought 
the Dow Average, my $1,000 would have become $170 in less than two years, and 
that is something that none of us here have ever experienced that -- we may have 

had it with one stock occasionally, but in terms of having a broad range of America 
marked down 83% in two years, and marked down 89% at the peak, that was on 
September 3rd, 1929, was extraordinary. 
In that intervening period, less than one year after I was born, just slightly less than 
one year, my dad went to the bank where he worked and had his account, and, of 
course, the bank had a sign out “closed” and so he had no job. And he had two kids 
at that point, and his father had a grocery store.  Charlie and I both worked for my 
grandfather. Charlie worked there in 1940, I worked there in 1941, so we didn’t 
know each other, but my grandfather said to my father, “Don’t worry about your 
groceries, Howard, he says, I’ll just let your bill run.” That was my grandfather  
exactly, he cared about his family but he wasn’t going to go crazy.   
One of the things as I look back on that period is, and I don’t think the economists 
generally like to give it that much of a point of importance, but if we’d had the FDIC 
10 years earlier, the FDIC started on January 1st, 1934, it was part of the sweeping 
legislation that took place when Roosevelt came in, but if we’d had the FDIC, we 
would have had a much, much different experience, I believe, in the Great 
Depression. People blaming -- I mean, there’s all kinds of things, the margin 
requirements in ’29, and all of those things entered into creating a recession, but if 
you have over 4,000 banks fail, that’s 4,000 local experiences where people save, 
and save and save and put their money away, and then someday they reach for it 
and it’s gone, and that happens in all 48 states, and it happens to your neighbors, 
and it happens to your relatives, it has to have an effect on the psyche that’s 
incredible. 
So one very, very, very good thing that came out of the Depression, in my view, is 
the FDIC, and it would have been a somewhat different world, I’m sure, if the bank 
failures hadn’t just rolled across this country, and with people that thought that they 
were savers find out that they had nothing when they went there and there was a 
sign that said, “Closed.” 
Incidentally, the FDIC, I think very few people know this, or at least they don’t 
appreciate it, but the FDIC has not cost the American taxpayer a dime, I mean, its 
expenses have been paid, its losses have been paid all through assessments on 
banks.  It’s been a mutual insurance company of the banks backed by the federal 
government, and associated with the federal government, but now it holds $100 
billion and that consists of premiums that were paid in an investment income on the 
premiums, less the expenses, and paying of all the losses, and think of the 
incredible amount of peace of mind that’s given to people that were not similarly 
situated when the Great Depression hit. 
So the Great Depression went on, and it lasted a very long time, but it lasted a lot 
longer in the minds of people than it did actually in its effects. World War II came 
along, and on sort of an involuntary manner we adopted Keynesianism, we started 
running fiscal deficits, of course, that were absolutely huge, and took our debt up to 

a percentage of GDP, which we had never reached before and never have reached 
since. 
So we had an enormous economic recovery, but the minds of people had been so 
scarred, the memories parents told their children. 1929 became a symbol in 
people’s minds. I mean, if you said 1929, it was like saying 1776, or 1492. I mean, 
everybody knew exactly what you were talking about, and it affected stock prices in 
a rather remarkable way to the point, if you’ll change to the next slide, it was 
January 4th of 1951 that the kid who was born on August 30th in 1930 had finished 
college before the stock market got back to where it was at that earlier time. 
So take the years from 1920, 1930, or 1929 really into 1951, or take the year from 
my birth, 20 years, and bear in mind that the country was only 140 years old when it 
started, that’s 20 years out of this amazing 231-year lifetime of our country, that was 
flat out a time of -- for a long time with no economic growth, and no feeling by 
people in terms about the wealth of the country, about what the American economy 
was worth, all these corporations that were doing far, far, far better than they were, 
all in all, but it took all of that time to restore in the market a price level that was 
equal to what it was when I was born 20 years earlier. 
So, if you think about the fact that we’re enduring a few months, and we’ll endure 
some many more months, and we don’t know how it comes out, and people in the 
’30s didn’t know how it was going to come out, but they endured, persevered, 
prospered, and the American miracle continued. But it’s interesting in that -- I 
actually don’t have a slide for the next one because last night I was thinking after all 
the slides had been prepared, I was actually thinking about this a little bit, and I 
remembered that at the start of 1954, the stock market was … the Dow was only at 
about 280, and I remember 1954 because it was the best year I ever had in the 
stock market. And the Dow went from essentially, what, 280 or thereabouts at the 
start of the year, to a little over 400 at the end of the year, and when it went to 400, 
as soon as it went across 381, that famous figure from 1929, when it went to 400, 
and this will be hard for some of you to believe, but everybody wondered, Is this 
1929 all over again? And that seems a little farfetched because it was a different 
country in 1954, but that was the common question, and it actually achieved such a 
level of worry about whether we were about to jump off another cliff just because 
the 381 of 1929 had been exceeded, that they held -- Senator Fulbright, Bill 
Fulbright of Arkansas, who became very famous later in terms of the foreign 
relations committee, but he headed the Senate Banking Committee, and he called 
for a special investigation, and he called it the --  what did he call it -- the stock 
market study. 
But, really, if you read through it, he really was questioning whether we had built 
another house of cards again, and on this committee, it’s interesting to see the 
Senate Finance Committee, one of the members was Prescott Bush, the father of 
George H. W. Bush and the grandfather of George W. Bush, and it had some 
illustrious names. His committee, in March of 1955, with a Dow of 405, assembled 

20 of the best minds in the United States to testify as to whether we were going 
crazy again, because the market was at 400, the Dow was at 400, and we had 
gotten in this incredible trouble before, but that was the mindset of the country, it’s 
incredible. 
We didn’t really believe America was what it was, and my boss, the reason I’m 
familiar with this 1000 page book that I have here, I found it last night in the library, 
was that I was working in New York for one of the 20 people that was called down to 
testify before Senator Fulbright, and he testified right before Bill Martin, who was 
running the Federal Reserve, testified, and right after General Wood who was 
running shares testified, it was very, very important then, and Bill Martin, of course, 
was the fellow that longest running chairman in the history of the Fed, and he’s the 
one that gave the famous quote about the function of the Fed was to take away the 
punch bowls just when the party started to get really warmed up.   
But Ben Graham, my boss, sent me over to the public library in New York to gather 
some information for him, something he could do in five minutes with a computer 
now, and I dug out something. He went to testify, and on page 545 of this book, I 
knew where to look, I didn’t have to go through it all, but the quote which I 
remember, and I remember because Ben Graham was one of the three smartest 
people I’ve met in my life, and he was the dean of people in the securities business, 
and he wrote the classic Security Analysis book in 1934. He wrote the book that 
changed my life, The Intelligent Investor, in 1949. He was unbelievably smart. 
And when he testified, with the Dow at 404, he had one line in there right toward the 
start in his written testimony, and he said, “The stock market is high, it looks high, it 
is high, but it’s not as high as it looks.” But he said, “It is high.” And since that time, 
if we’ll turn to the next slide, of course, we felt the American tailwind at full force, 
and the Dow, well, let’s see, where the Dow was -- it went down on Friday, but when 
we made the slide, it was about 24,000. So you’re looking at a market today that 
has produced $100 for every dollar.  All you did was you had to believe in America, 
just buy a cross-section of America. You didn’t have to read the Wall Street Journal. 
You didn’t have to look up the price of your stock. You didn’t have to pay a lot of 
money in fees to anybody. You just had to believe that the American miracle was 
intact. 
But you’d had this testing period between 1929 and well really certainly 1954, as 
indicated by what happened when it got back up to 380, you had this testing period, 
and people really had lost faith to some degree. They just didn’t see the potential of 
what America could do. We found that nothing can stop America when you get right 
down to it, and it’s been true all along. It may have been interrupted. 
One of the scariest of scenarios, when you had a war with one group of States 
fighting another group of States, and it may have been tested again in the Great 
Depression, and it may be tested now to some degree, but in the end the answer is 

never bet against America, and that in my view is as true today as it was in 1789, 
and even was true during the Civil War, and the depths of the Depression. 
Now, I’m now about to say something that, and don’t change the slide yet, but I’m 
now about to say something that some of you will be tempted to argue with me 
about, but I would make the case that we are imperfect in a great, great, great many 
ways, but I would say, and if you put up the next slide, that we are now a better 
country as well as an incredibly more wealthy country than we were in 1789. We’re 
far, far, far from what we should be, will be, but we have gone dramatically in the 
right direction. 
It’s interesting, in 1776, we said we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men 
are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, among 
these are life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness, and yet 14 years later, a year after 
we really officially began the country in 1789, adopted a constitution, we found that 
more than 15% of the people in the country were slaves, and we wrestled with that. 
But when you say the word self-evident, that sort of sounds like you’re saying any 
damn fool can recognize that, and you certainly say -- you can argue maybe a little 
bit about life, and the pursuit of happiness, but I don’t see how in the world anybody 
can reconcile liberty with the idea that 15% of the population was enslaved, and it 
took us a long time to at least partially correct that. I mean it took a civil war, it took 
losing 6% of those people, males that were between 18 and 60 years of age, but 
we’ve moved in the right direction.  We’ve got a long way to go, but we’ve moved in 
the right direction now. In addition, going back again to that 1776 statement, that all 
men are created equal and endowed by their creator, et cetera. I think it was self-
evident to the 50% of the population that they were getting a fair deal for over half 
the lifetime of the country. It took 131 years until women were guaranteed the right 
to vote for our country’s leaders, and then what’s even more remarkable is that after 
we adopted the 19th amendment, 1920, it took 61 more years until a woman was 
allowed to join those eight males on the Supreme Court. I grew up thinking that the 
Supreme Court must have said there had to be nine men, but 61 years -- it took 192 
years before Sandra Day O’Connor was appointed to the court, and now you can 
say that there was a pipeline problem. 
Half the population may have been women in 1920, but they weren’t half the 
lawyers, or I think they were 10% of the lawyers probably. So you can understand 
some delay, but 61 years is a long time to go and to pick 33 males in-between. If 
that was entirely by chance, then the odds against that fewer flipping coins is about 
eight billion to one, like I said, there was a pipeline problem, but it took us a long, 
long time, and it’s not done yet, but I think it does give meaning to the fact that we 
are a better society with a lot of room to go, that we are a better society than existed 
in 1789. 
When you go to Colonial Williamsburg, I’ve been there a couple of times, as a 
matter of fact, I watched the debate between Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford there in 
the 1976, and it was not a great time to be black, it was not a great time to be a 

woman, and both of those categories still certainly have potential for significant 
improvement in terms of fulfilling that pledge made in 1776 about how we believe 
that it’s self-evident that all men were created equal, but we have made progress, 
we are a better society, and we will, as the years go by -- if you’ll move to the next 
slide, and I believe that, and I think, let’s see if I can get these slides in the proper 
order here. I believe that when you get through evaluating all of the qualitative facts, 
what we have done toward meeting the aspirations of what we wrote in 1776 -- what 
we wrote in 1776 wasn’t a fact, but it was an aspirational document, and we have 
worked toward those aspirations, and we have a long way to go, but I’ll repeat, if 
you move to the next slide, never - never - bet against America. 
Now, let’s move on now to a much broader subject, what I don’t know. I don’t know, 
and perhaps with a bias, I don’t believe anybody knows what the market is going to 
do tomorrow, next week, next month, next year. I know America is going to move 
forward over time, but I don’t know for sure, and we learned this on September 10th, 
2001, and we learned it a few months ago in terms of the virus. Anything can 
happen in terms of markets, and you can bet on America, but you have to be careful 
about how you bet, simply because markets can do anything. 
On October, whatever it was in 1987, October 11th I believe, a Monday, markets 
went down 22% in one day. In 1914, they closed the stock market for about four 
months. After 9/11 they closed the market for four days, we hustled to get it going 
again, but nobody knows what’s going to happen tomorrow. So when they tell you to 
bet on America, and I tell you that that’s what’s really gotten me through ever since I 
bought my first stock when I was 11, I mean I caught a huge, huge, huge tailwind in 
America, but it wasn’t going to blow in my direction every single day, and you don’t 
know what’s going to happen tomorrow. 
I would like to context to the present news, point out something you may find kind of 
interesting. If you go to YouTube, you’ll find on June 17th of 2015, four-plus years 
ago, you’ll find Sam Nunn, that was one of the people I admire the most in the 
United States and in the world, enormous patriot and tremendous senator, and he’s 
carried on thankless work since leaving the Senate, and heading something called 
the Nuclear Threat Initiative, which most of you haven’t heard of, but I’ve been 
slightly involved in it. Sam Nunn founded that. 
And, the Nuclear Threat Initiative is simply organizations that are devoted to trying 
to reduce the chances of something of a nuclear, chemical, biological, and now 
cyber nature from either malevolent or accidental or whatever it may be, from 
causing deaths to millions of Americans, and among the things that -- Sam co-
founded it, but he’s been the heart and soul of the organization subsequently, and 
he’s talked about, worried about pandemics, along with the nuclear threat for 
decades, and he’s participated in war games where they play out various scenarios, 
including malevolent pandemics that could be started by the same kind of nut that 
sent the anthrax letters around 9/11, a little after. Sam paired down this YouTube 
presentation, and I’m sure he’s been on many others, I just happened to look this 

one up, and talked about the dangers of a pandemic.  Anybody should listen to Sam 
Nunn anytime he talks. So he said at that time, “Germs don’t have borders,” which 
we certainly learned in the last couple of months, and when I clicked on YouTube, if 
you’ll go to the next, I found out that basically it had 831 views, and this was only a 
few days ago, I looked it up, but I don’t know whether most of those views have just 
been the last few days or the last few months, I shouldn’t say, because of the 
interest in pandemics, but it is hard to think about things that haven’t happened yet. 
So we can experience, and when something like the current pandemic happens, it’s 
hard to factor that in, and that’s why you never want to use borrowed money, at 
least in my view, and then buy into investments. 
And we run Berkshire that way, we run it so that we literally try to think of the worst 
case of not only just one thing going wrong, but other things going wrong at the 
same time, maybe partly caused by the first, but maybe independent even of the 
first. You learned in, I don’t know what grade now, probably earlier than when I went 
to school, but in fifth or sixth grade, that you can have any series of numbers times 
zero, and you just need one zero in there and the answer is zero, and there’s no 
reason to use borrowed money to participate in the American tailwind, but there’s 
every other reason to participate. 
Now, I can’t resist pointing out that in October of 2019, a large 300-page, I’ve got it 
right here, a book was brought out, and Johns Hopkins, one of the most respected 
institutions in the country, and Nuclear Threat Initiative, NTI, and the Intelligence 
Group at The Economist collaborated to evaluate the problems of the worldwide 
preparedness for pandemics, essentially. And I think in November, Sam came out to 
see me with Ernie, more recent former Secretary of Energy who now is the CEO of 
NTI. He and Sam are co-chairmen, and Beth Cameron, who did a lot of work on this 
report, came out to see me. And they gave me in November I believe of last year, 
they gave me this appraisal. And the opening line, if you’ll turn the page, this is the 
opening line of this 300-page tome: “Biological threats—natural, intentional, or 
accidental—in any country can pose risks to global health, international security, 
and the worldwide economy.” And this book was prepared in order to evaluate the 
preparedness of the various countries and rank them. We ranked pretty well, but all 
of us got a failing - all of the countries got a failing grade, basically. 
Now, you would think with the prestige of Johns Hopkins and The Economist, along 
with people like Sam and Ernie, etc., that this would’ve gotten some attention. And, 
again, Sam - turn to the next page. Sam and the others went on YouTube on 
October 24, 2019, and they have racked up, as of a couple days ago, 1,498 views. 
Now, my friend Bill Gates was delivering the same warning at a TED Talk some 
years back. And he’s gotten a lot more views. But it just says something about the 
fact that you’re going to get both from the blue, and you can read papers about 
them, and you can talk about what’ll happen if some, as they used to, the fellows 
would say, Salomon used to tell me, some 25-sigma event comes along, and they’ll 
then say that that’ll happen once in the life of the universe. And then it happens to 
them a couple times in a month, and they go broke. 

You just don’t know what’s going to happen. You know, at least in my view, you 
know that America’s tailwind is not exhausted. You’re going to get a fine result if you 
own equities over a long period of time. And the idea that equities will not produce 
better results than the 30-year Treasury bond, which yields one and a quarter 
percent now, it’s taxable income. It’s the aim of the Federal Reserve to have 2% a 
year inflation. Equities are going to outperform that bond. They’re going to 
outperform Treasury bills. They’re going to outperform that money you’ve stuck 
under your mattress. I mean, they are an enormously sound investment as long as 
they’re an investment and they’re not a gambling device or something that you think 
you can safely buy on margin or whatever it may be. 
It’s interesting that stocks offer, which, and stocks are a -- we always look at stocks 
as just being a part of a business. I mean, stocks are a small part of a business. If in 
1789 you’d saved a small amount of money, and it wasn’t easy to save, you 
might’ve bought with those savings, you might’ve bought a tiny, tiny plot of property. 
Maybe you bought a house that could be rented to somebody, but you didn’t really 
have the chance to buy in with 10 different people who were developing businesses, 
and who were presumably putting their own money in, and that would have the 
American tailwind behind. And of the 10, a reasonably high percentage would 
succeed in a way and earn decent returns, but those are the choices. You might 
have had to do with savings. And they started offering bonds originally and there 
again you got a limited return. But the return in those days may have been 5% or 
6% or something of the sort. But you can’t buy risk-free bonds. I mean, the yardstick 
for me is always the U.S. Treasury. And when somebody offers you quite a bit more 
than the U.S. Treasury, there’s usually a reason. There’s much more risk. 
But going back to stocks, people bring the attitude to them too often that because 
they are liquid and quoted minute by minute that it’s an important that you develop 
an opinion on them minute by minute. Now, that’s really foolish when you think 
about it.  And that’s something Graham taught me in 1949, I mean, that single 
thought, that stocks were parts of businesses and not just little things that moved 
around on charts or -- charts were very popular in those days, and whatever it may 
be. 
Imagine for a moment that you decided to invest money now, and you bought a 
farm. And the farmland around here, let’s say you bought 160 acres, and you 
bought it at x per share, or per acre. And the farmer next to you had 160 identical 
acres, same contour, same quality, soil quality, so it was identical. And that farmer 
next door to you was a very peculiar character because every day that farmer with 
the identical farm said, I’ll sell you my farm, or I’ll buy your farm at a certain price, 
which he would name. 
Now, that’s a very obliging neighbor. I mean, that’s got to be a plus to have a fellow 
like that with the next farm. You don’t get that with farms, you get it with stocks. You 
want 100 shares of General Motors, and then on Monday morning, somebody will 

buy you 100 shares or sell you another 100 shares at exactly the same price and 
that goes on, I don’t know, five days a week. But just imagine if you had a farmer 
doing that. When you bought the farm, you looked at what the farm would produce. 
That was what went through your mind. You were saying to yourself, I’m paying X 
dollars per acre. I think I’ll get so many bushels of corn or soybeans on average, 
some years good, some years bad. Some years the price will be good. Some years 
the price will be bad, etc. But you think about the potential of the farm, and now we 
get this idiot that buys the farm next to you, and on top of that, he’s sort of a manic 
depressive and drinks, maybe smokes a little pot. So his numbers just go all over 
the place. Now, the only thing you have to do is to remember that this guy next door 
is there to serve you and not to instruct you. You bought the farm because you 
thought the farm had the potential. You don’t really need a quote on it. If you bought 
in with John D. Rockefeller or Andrew Carnegie, there were never any quotes. Well, 
there were quotes later on, but basically you bought into the business. And that’s 
what you’re doing when you buy stocks. But you get this added advantage that you 
do have this neighbor who you’re not obliged to listen to at all who is going to give 
you a price every day. And he’s going to have his ups and downs. And maybe he’ll 
name a selling price that he’ll buy at in which case you’ll sell if you want to. Or 
maybe he’ll name a very low price, and you’ll buy his farm from him, but you don’t 
have to. And you don’t want to put yourself in a position to where you have to. So 
stocks have this enormous inherent advantage of people yelling out prices all the 
time to you, and many people turn that into a disadvantage. And, of course, many 
people can profit in one way or another from telling you that they can tell you what 
this farmer’s going to yell out tomorrow or your neighboring farmer’s going to yell 
out tomorrow, or next week, or next month. 
There’s huge money on it. So people tell you that it’s important, and they know, and 
that you should pay a lot of attention to their thoughts about what price changes 
should be, or you tell yourself that there should be this great difference. But the 
truth is, if you owned the businesses you liked prior to the virus arriving, it changes 
prices, and it changes, but nobody’s forcing you to sell. And if you really like the 
business, and you like the management you’re in with, and the business hasn’t 
fundamentally changed -- and I’ll get to that in a little when I report on Berkshire, 
which I will soon, I promise, the stocks have an enormous advantage. And you can 
still bet on America. But you can’t bet unless you’re willing and have an outlook to 
independently decide that you want to own a cross section of America because I 
don’t think most people are in a position to pick single stocks -- a few may be, but 
on balance, I think people are much better off buying a cross section of America and 
just forgetting about it. If you’d done that, if I’d done that when I got out of college, 
it’s all I had to do to make 100 for 1 and then collect dividends on top of it, which 
increased, would increase substantially over time. 
The American tailwind is marvelous. American business represents, and it’s going 
to have interruptions, and you’re not going to foresee the interruptions, and you 
don’t want to get yourself in a position where those interruptions can affect you 
either because you’re leveraged or because you’re psychologically unable to handle 

looking at a bunch of numbers. If you really had a farm, and you had this neighbor, 
and one day he offered you $2,000 an acre, and the next day he offers you $1,200 
an acre, and maybe the day after that he offers you $800 an acre, are you really 
going to feel that at $2,000 an acre when you had evaluated what the farm would 
produce, are you going to let this guy drive you into thinking, I better sell because 
his number keeps coming in lower all the time? It’s a very, very, very important 
matter to bring the right psychological approach to owning common stocks. 
But I will tell you, if you bet on America and sustain that position for decades, you’re 
going to do better than, in my view, far better than owning Treasury securities or far 
better than following people who tell you that what the farmer’s going to yell out 
next. There’s huge amounts of money that people pay for advice they really don’t 
need and for advice where the person giving it could be very well-meaning in it and 
believe their own line. But the truth is that you can’t deliver superior results to 
everybody by just having them trade around a business. 
If you bought into a business, it’s going to deliver what the business produces. And 
the idea that you’re going to outsmart the person next to you, or the person advising 
you can outsmart the person sitting next to you is, well, it’s really the wrong 
approach. So find businesses. Get a cross section. And in my view, for most people, 
the best thing to do is to own the S&P 500 index fund. People will try and sell you 
other things because there’s more money in it for them if they do. And I’m not 
saying that that’s a conscious act on their part. 
Most good salespeople believe their own baloney. I mean, that’s part of being a 
good salesperson. And I’m sure I’ve done plenty of that in my life too, but it’s very 
human if you keep repeating something often enough. That’s why lawyers have the 
witnesses keep saying things over and over again, that by the time they get on the 
witness stand, they’ll believe it whether it was true in the first place or not. 
But you are dealing with something fundamentally advantageous, in my view, in 
owning common stocks. I will bet on America the rest of my life. And I hope my 
successors at Berkshire do it. Now, we do it in two different ways. We do it by 
buying entire businesses, and we buy parts of businesses. And I would like to 
emphasize that -- well, I’d like to give you a few figures that will tie in from our 
activities in the first quarter and also what we’ve done in April. We are not right 
about -- we do try to pick the businesses that we think we understand. We don’t buy 
the S&P 500. And we like to buy the entire businesses when we buy them, but we 
don’t get a chance to do that very often. Most of the best businesses are not 
available for sale in their entirety but we don’t mind in the least buying partial 
interest in businesses. And we would rather own 6% or 7% or 8% of a wonderful 
company and regard it as a partnership interest, essentially, in that company. And 
then we get an opportunity to do that through marketable securities and sometimes 
we get more opportunities than others. 

And with that, I hope I’ve convinced you to bet on America. Not saying that this is 
the right time to buy stocks if you mean by “right,” that they’re going to go up 
instead of down. I don’t know where they’re going to go in the next day, or week, or 
month, or year. But I hope I know enough to know -- well, I think I can buy a cross 
section and do fine over 20 or 30 years. And you may think that’s kind of, for a guy 
89, that that’s kind of an optimistic viewpoint. But I hope that really everybody would 
buy stocks with the idea that they’re buying partnerships in businesses and they 
wouldn’t look at them as chips to move around, up or down. 
So we will just now take a quick look. And I see we’ve got Becky’s email address. 
So if you have questions on what I’ve said or other things, you can email these 
questions. And she is back there -- probably sort of a madhouse trying to handle 
questions coming in and pick out the ones she’s going to prioritize. But feel free to --
anything I’ve talked about so far -- to send along to her, and we’ll keep her address 
up when I later hold the formal part of the meeting, too. 
Very briefly in terms of Berkshire, in the first quarter, if you’ll put up -- do we have 
the slides on that? There we are. Our operating earnings were-- and there’s much 
more about this in the 10-Q, and it’s really not worth spending any real time on. But 
the operating earnings for the first quarter have no meaning whatsoever in terms of 
forecasting what’s going to happen the next year. And I don’t know the 
consequences of shutting down the American economy. I know eventually it will 
work, whatever we do. We may make mistakes. We will make mistakes, and during 
this talk and later on, I’m not going to be second-guessing people on this because 
nobody knows for sure what any alternative action would produce or anything of the 
sort. 
But what we do know is that for some period, certainly during the balance of the 
year, but it could go on a considerable period of time, who knows, but our operating 
earnings will be less, considerably less, than if the virus hadn’t come along. I mean, 
that’s just it. It hurts some of our businesses a lot. I mean, you shut down. Some of 
our businesses effectively have been shut down.  It affects others much less. Our 
three major businesses of insurance and the BNSF Railroad, and our energy 
business, those are our three largest by some margin. They’re in a reasonably 
decent position. They will spend more than their depreciation. So some of the 
earnings will go, along with depreciation, will go toward increasing fixed assets, but 
basically these businesses will produce cash even though their earnings decline 
somewhat. And if we’ll go to part two, at Berkshire, we keep ourselves in an 
extraordinarily strong position. We’ll always do that—that’s just fundamental. We 
insure people. We’re a specialist to some extent and a leader. It’s not our main 
business, but we sell structured settlements. That means somebody gets in a 
terrible accident, usually an auto accident, and they’re going to require care for 10, 
30, 50 years. 
And their family or their lawyer is wise enough, in our view, to rather than take some 
big cash settlement to essentially arrange to have money paid over the lifetime of 

the individual to take care of their medical bills, or whatever it may be. And we’re 
large. We’ve got many, many, many people that in effect have staked their well-
being on the promises of Berkshire to take care of them for, like I say, I mean, 50 
years or longer into the future. 
And, now, I would never take real chances with money, of other people’s money 
under any circumstances. Both Charlie and I come from a background where we ran 
partnerships. I started mine in 1956 for really seven actual family members or the 
equivalent. And Charlie did the same thing six years later. And we never, neither 
one of us, I think, I know I didn’t, and I’m virtually certain the same is true of Charlie, 
neither one of us ever had a single institution investment with us. 
I mean, every single bit of money we managed for other people was from 
individuals, people with faces attached to them, or entities, money with faces 
attached to them. So we’ve always felt that our job is basically that of a trustee, and 
hopefully a reasonably smart trustee in terms of what we were trying to accomplish. 
But the trustee aspect has been very important. And it’s true for the people with the 
structured settlements. It’s true for up and down the line. But it’s true for the owners 
very much, too. So we always operate from a position of strength. 
Now, I show on the slide that’s up, I show our -- well, let’s go back one.  I show our 
net, our cash and Treasury bill position on March 31st. And you might look at that 
and say, Well, you’ve got $125 billion or so in cash and Treasury bills. And you’ve 
got -- at least at that point, we had about, I don’t know, $180 billion or so in equities. 
And you can say, Well, that’s a huge position to have in Treasury bills versus just 
$180 billion in equities. But we really have far more than that in equities because we 
own a lot of businesses. We own 100% of the stock of a great many businesses, 
which to us are very similar to the marketable stocks we own. We just don’t own 
them all. They don’t have a quote on them. 
But we have hundreds of billions of wholly owned businesses. So our $124 billion is 
not some 40% or so cash positions, it’s far less than that. And we will always keep 
plenty of cash on hand, and for any circumstances, with a 9/11 comes along, if the 
stock market is closed, as it was in World War I—it’s not going to be, but I didn’t 
think we were going to be having a pandemic when I watched that Creighton-
Villanova game in January either. 
So we want to be in a position at Berkshire where -- well, you remember Blanche 
DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire? That goes back before many of you. But she 
said she didn’t want -- in Blanche’s case, she said that she depended on the 
kindness of strangers. And we don’t want to be dependent on the kindness of 
friends even because there are times when money almost stops. And we had one of 
those - interestingly enough, we had it, of course, in 2008 and ’09. But right around 
in the day or two leading up to March 23rd, we came very close but fortunately we 
had a Federal Reserve that knew what to do, but money was -- investment-grade 
companies were essentially going to be frozen out of the market. 

CFOs all over the country had been taught to sort of maximize returns on equity 
capital, so they financed themselves to some extent through commercial paper 
because that was very cheap and it was backed up by bank lines and all of that and 
they let the debt creep up quite a bit in many companies. And then, of course, they 
had the hell scared out of them by what was happening in markets, particularly the 
equity markets. And so they rushed to draw down lines of credit. And that surprised 
the people who had extended those lines of credit; they got very nervous. And the 
capacity of Wall Street to absorb a rush to liquidity that was taking place in mid-
March was strained to the limit to the point where the Federal Reserve, observing 
these markets, decided they had to move in a very big way. 
We got to the point where the U.S. Treasury market, the deepest of all markets, got 
somewhat disorganized. And when that happens, believe me, every bank and CFO 
in the country knows it, and they react with fear. And fear is the most contagious 
disease you can imagine. It makes the virus look like a piker. We came very close to 
having a total freeze of credit to the largest companies in the world who were 
depending on it. And to the great credit of Jay Powell, I’ve always had Paul Volcker 
up on a special place, special pedestal in terms of Federal Reserve chairman over 
the years. We’ve had a lot of very good Fed chairmen, but Paul Volcker, I had him 
at the top of the list. And I’ll recommend another, but Paul Volcker died about, I 
don’t know, less than maybe a year ago or a little less. 
But not much before he died, he wrote a book called Keeping At It. And if you call 
my friends at the Bookworm, I think you’ll enjoy reading that book. Paul Volcker was 
a giant in many ways. He was a big guy too. He and Jay Powell, couldn’t see more 
in temperament or anything, but Jay Powell, in my view, in the Fed board belong up 
there on that pedestal with him because they acted in the middle of March, probably 
somewhat instructed by what they’d seen in 2008 and ’09. They reacted in a huge 
way and essentially allowed what’s happened since that time to play out the way it 
has. 
And then March, when the market had essentially frozen, closed a little after mid-
month, ended up, because the Fed took these actions on March 23rd, it ended up 
being the largest month for corporate debt issuance I believe in history. And then 
April followed through and was even a larger month. And you saw all kinds of 
companies grabbing everything, coming to market and spreads actually narrow 
then. And every one of those people that issued bonds in late March and April, I 
sent a thank you letter to the Fed because it would not have happened if they hadn’t 
operated with really unprecedented speed and determination. 
And we’ll know the consequences of swelling the Fed’s balance sheet. You can look 
at the Fed’s balance sheet. They put it out every Thursday. It’s kind of interesting 
reading if you’re sort of a nut like me. But it’s up there on the Internet every 
Thursday. And you’ll see some extraordinary changes there in the last six or seven 
weeks. 

And like I say, we don’t know the consequences of that, and nobody does exactly. 
And we don’t know what the consequences of what they undoubtedly will have to 
do. But we do know the consequences of doing nothing. And that would’ve been the 
tendency of the Fed in many years past, not doing nothing, but doing something 
inadequate. But Mario Draghi brought the whatever it takes to Europe and the Fed, 
then with Mario, sort of did whatever it takes, squared, and we owe them a huge 
thank you. 
But we’re prepared at Berkshire. We always prepare on the basis that maybe the 
Fed will not have a chairman that acts like that. And we really want to be prepared 
for anything. So that explains some of the $124 billion in cash and bills. We don’t 
need it all. But we never want to be dependent on not only the kindness of strangers 
but the kindness of friends. Now, in the next slide, we have what we did in equities, 
and these numbers are tiny when you get right down to it. I mean, for having $500 
billion or so in net worth and -- I mean, not net worth, but in market value at the start 
of the year or something close to that, we bought in $1.7 billion of stock, and our 
purchases were a couple of billion more than our sales of equities. But as you saw 
in the previous slide, we had operating earnings of $5, almost $6 billion. So we did 
very little in the first quarter. And then I’ve added in another figure, which I wouldn’t 
normally present to you. But I want to be sure that if I’m talking to you about 
investments and stocks more than I usually have, I want you to know what 
Berkshire’s actually doing. Now, you’ll see in the month of April that we net sold $6 
billion or so of securities. 
And that isn’t because we thought the stock market was going to go down or 
anything of this sort because somebody changes their target price, or they change 
this year’s earnings forecast. I just decided that I’d made a mistake in evaluating. 
That was an understandable mistake. It was a probability-weighted decision when 
we bought that we were getting an attractive amount for our money when investing 
across the airlines business. So we bought roughly 10% of the four largest airlines, 
and we probably -- this is not 100% of what we did in April, but we probably paid $7 
or $8 billion and then -- somewhere between seven and eight billion to own 10% of 
the four large companies in the airline business, and we felt for that, we were 
getting a billion dollars roughly of earnings. Now we weren’t getting a billion dollars 
of dividends, but we felt our share of the underlying earnings was a billion dollars 
and we felt that that number was more likely to go up than down over a period of 
time. It would be cyclical obviously, but it was as if we bought the whole company. 
But we bought it through the New York Stock Exchange, and we can only effectively 
buy 10% roughly of the four. And we treat it mentally exactly as if we were buying a 
business. And it turned out I was wrong about that business because of something 
that was not in any way the fault of four excellent CEOs. 
I mean, believe me, there’s no joy being a CEO of an airline, but the companies we 
bought are well managed. They did a lot of things right. It’s a very, very, very 
difficult business because you’re dealing with millions of people every day, and if 
something goes wrong for 1% of them, they are very unhappy. So I don’t envy 

anybody the job of being CEO of an airline, but I particularly don’t enjoy being it in a 
period like this, where essentially nobody -- people have been told basically not to 
fly. I’ve been told not to fly for a while. I’m looking forward to flying. I may not fly 
commercial, but that’s another question. The airline business, and I may be wrong 
and I hope I’m wrong, but I think it changed in a very major way, and it’s obviously 
changed in the fact that four companies are each going to borrow perhaps an 
average of at least 10 or 12 billion each. You have to pay that back out of earnings 
over some period of time. I mean, you’re 10 or $12 billion worse off if that happens. 
And, of course, in some cases they’re having to sell stock or sell the right to buy a 
stock at these prices. And that takes away from the upside. And I don’t know 
whether it’s two or three years from now that as many people will fly as many 
passenger miles as they did last year. They may and they may not, but the future is 
much less clear to me about how the business will turn out through absolutely no 
fault of the airlines themselves. That’s something that was -- a low probability event 
happened, and it happened to hurt particularly the travel business, the hotel 
business, cruise business, the theme park business, but the airline business in 
particular. And, of course, the airline business has the problem that if the business 
comes back 70% or 80%, the aircraft don’t disappear. So you’ve got too many 
planes, but it didn’t look that way when the orders were placed a few months ago, 
when arrangements were made. But the world changed for airlines and I wish them 
well, but it’s one of the businesses we have. We have businesses we own directly 
that are going to be hurt significantly. The virus will cost Berkshire money. It doesn’t 
cost money because of our stock. And various other businesses move around. I 
mean, if XYZ, which say is one of our holdings and we own it as a business and we 
like the business and the stock goes down 20 or 30 or 40%, we don’t feel we’re 
poorer in that situation -- if we felt we were poorer in terms of what actually 
happened to those airline businesses just as if we owned a hundred percent of 
them. So that explains those sales, which are relatively minor, but I want to make 
sure that nobody thinks that involves a market prediction. And that pretty well wraps 
it up for Berkshire.  
So now we move into the formal part of the meeting, which will be followed by a 
fairly extended question and answer period if there are a lot of questions with 
Becky. And while we’re doing this formal part of the meeting, it’s not too exciting. So 
feel free to leave whatever you’re viewing this through, and if you want to send 
questions to Becky, we’ll keep her contact information up on the screen. Or if you 
want to fix yourself a sandwich or do anything else, we will now move -- or you can 
pay attention to the formal part of the meeting. But we will do this, and it won’t take 
too long, and then we will move on to the question and answer meeting. 
So with that, I will call the meeting to order. And this follows a script, if you can’t tell 
by what I’m saying. I’m Warren Buffett, chairman of the board of directors of the 
company, and I welcome you to this 2020 annual meeting of shareholders. Marc 
Hamburg is secretary of Berkshire Hathaway, and he will make a written record of 
the proceedings. Dan Jaksich has been appointed inspector of elections at this 

meeting. He will certify to the count of votes cast in the election for directors and the 
motions to be voted upon at this meeting. 
The named proxy holders for this meeting are Walter Scott and Marc Hamburg. 
Does the secretary have a report of the number of Berkshire shares outstanding 
entitled to vote and represented at the meeting? 
Marc Hamburg: Yes I do. As indicated in the proxy statement that accompanied this 
note, the notice of this meeting that was sent to all shareholders of record on March 
4th, 2020, the record date for this meeting, there were 699,123 shares of class A 
Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each share entitled to one 
vote on motions considered at the meeting, and 1,382,352,370 shares of class B 
Berkshire Hathaway common stock outstanding, with each share entitled to one 
10000th of one vote on motions considered at the meeting. Of that number, 472,037 
class A shares and 834,802,274 class B shares are represented at this meeting by 
proxies returned through Thursday evening, April 30th. 
Warren Buffett: Thank you. That number represents a quorum, and we will therefore 
directly proceed with the meeting. First order of business will be a reading of the 
minutes of the last meeting of shareholders. I recognize Miss Debbie Bosanek who 
will put some motion before the meeting. 
Debbie Bosanek: I move that the reading of the minutes of the last meeting of 
shareholders be dispensed with and the minutes be approved. 
Warren Buffett: Do I hear a second? 
Speaker 3: I second the motion. 
Warren Buffett: The motion is carried. The next item of business is to elect directors. 
I recognize Ms. Debbie Bosanek to place a motion before the meeting with respect 
to the election of directors. 
Debbie Bosanek: I move that Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Gregory Abel, 
Howard Buffett, Stephen Burke, Kenneth Chenault, Susan Decker, David 
Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Ajit Jain, Thomas Murphy, Ronald Olson, Walter 
Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as directors. 
Speaker 3: I second the motion. 
Warren Buffett: It has been moved and seconded that Warren Buffett, Charles 
Munger, Gregory Abel, Howard Buffett, Steve Burke, Ken Chenault, Susan Decker, 
David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, Ajit Jain, Tom Murphy, Ron Olson, Walter 
Scott, and Meryl Witmer be elected as directors. The nominations are ready to be 
acted upon. Mr. Jaksich, when you’re ready, you may give your report. 

Dan Jaksich: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast not less than 
543,203 votes for each nominee. That number exceeds a majority of the number of 
the total votes of all class A and class B shares outstanding. The certification 
required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
Warren Buffett: Thank you. Mr. Jaksich. Warren Buffett, Charles Munger, Greg 
Abel, Howard Buffett, Steve Burke, Ken Chenault, Susan Decker, David Gottesman, 
Charlotte Guyman, Ajit Jain, Tom Murphy, Ron Olson, Walter Scott, and Meryl 
Witmer have been elected as directors. And Ken, if you’re watching or listening… 
Ken Chenault, our new director, actually got the highest vote of all the directors, 
well ahead of me I might add, so congratulations, Ken. The next item on the agenda 
is an advisory vote on the compensation of Berkshire Hathaway’s executive officers. 
I recognize Miss Debbie Bosanek to place a motion before the meeting on this item. 
Debbie Bosanek: I move that the shareholders of the company approve on an 
advisory basis the compensation paid to the company’s named executive officers as 
disclosed pursuant to item 402 of regulation SK, including the compensation 
discussion and analysis, the accompanying compensation tables, and the related 
narrative discussion in the company’s 2020 annual meeting proxy statement. 
Speaker 3: I second the motion. 
Warren Buffett: It has been moved and seconded that the shareholders of that 
company approve on an advisory basis the compensation paid at the company’s 
named executive officers. Mr. Jaksich, when you are ready, you may give your 
report. 
Dan Jaksich: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast not less than 
519,750 votes to approve on an advisory basis the compensation paid to the 
company’s named executive officers. That number exceeds a majority of the 
number of the total votes of all class A and class B shares outstanding. Certification 
required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
Warren Buffett: Thank you, Mr. Jaksich. The motion to approve on an advisory basis 
the compensation paid at the company’s named executive officers has passed. The 
next item on the agenda is an advisory vote on the frequency of shareholder 
advisory vote on compensation of Berkshire Hathaway’s executive officers. I 
recognize Miss Debbie Bosanek to place a motion before the meeting on this item. 
Debbie Bosanek: I move that the shareholders of the company determine on an 
advisory basis the frequency whether annual, biennial, or triennial, with which they 
shall have an advisory vote on the compensation paid to the company’s named 

executive officers as set forth in the company’s 2020 annual meeting proxy 
statement. 
Speaker 3: I second the motion. 
Warren Buffett: It’s been moved and seconded that the shareholders of the 
company determine the frequency with which they shall have an advisory vote on 
compensation of named executive officers with the option being every one, two, or 
three years. Mr. Jaksich, when you are ready, you may give your report. 
Dan Jaksich: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast 131,443 votes for a 
frequency of every year, 2,228 votes for a frequency of every two years and 
419,984 votes for a frequency of every three years of an advisory vote on the 
compensation paid to the company’s named executive officers. The certification 
required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be given to the 
secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
Warren Buffett: Thank you, Mr. Jaksich. The shareholders of the company have 
determined on an advisory basis that they shall have an advisory vote on the 
compensation paid to the company’s named executive officers every three years. 
Now we’re through with sort of the boilerplate resolutions in this. This next item is of 
more importance, and we have put up on the berkshirehathaway.com site some 
material relating to this motion, which I hope shareholders and others read, because 
it’s important and it’s, well, I’ll describe it as the script says. The next item of 
business is a motion put forth by the boards of trustees of the New York City 
Employees’ Retirement System, the New York City Teachers’ Retirement System, 
the New York City Police Pension Fund, the New York City Fire Pension Fund, 
collectively called the systems. The motion is set forth in the proxy statement. The 
motion requests that the company adopt the policy from approving board and top 
management diversity. The directors have recommended the shareholders vote 
against the proposal. I’d like to interrupt the script here just a second to point out 
that when we saw that it would be impossible to have shareholders attend this 
meeting, and traveling to Omaha and gathering -- and gatherings which really 
neither the governor, the mayor, the public safety people thought would be 
advisable. 
We were hoping to have somebody from the controller’s office come and present 
the motion and then have a good discussion at the meeting of the pros and cons 
because it’s a seriously important subject. And I can tell you on a personal basis, I 
think I’m in sync with the controller in terms of how he wants the world to evolve. 
But I disagree on the specifics of this motion as applied to more generally and to 
Berkshire’s board in particular. And we’ve been very outspoken over the years. 
We’ve probably written more on qualifications for directors than probably any public 
company I can think of. And we’ve been consistent over the years, and we’ve 
explained the reasons for our position, and we know a great many people disagree 

with that position. So I welcomed the idea of really presenting to our meeting and 
having our shareholders hear what they had to say and evaluate what our thoughts 
were. 
And when we had to essentially not allow shareholders at the meeting, we 
immediately got in touch with the controller’s office, and we said we’d make an 
exception if anybody from the controller’s office wanted to come out and present the 
proposition or the proposal and engage in our discussion of the pros and cons. And 
as you might expect, they were not in a position to send somebody. So we offered --  
we may have made it even in the first place. We’d be glad to have somebody 
introduce the motion on their behalf, and that we would also -- if they would send 
along a supporting statement, we would be glad to have the person that was their 
proxy in effect present the motion. We’d be happy to have them read the supporting 
statement, and we said we’d appreciate it if they keep it to five minutes or less. 
And they wrote back immediately, or emailed back immediately, and said that they’d 
be delighted to do it that way and they’d even try and keep it down to three minutes.  
So they have sent a supporting statement, which is going to be read to you in a 
minute, and I’m glad they did it. I do hope shareholders will, or have already, and 
others will read it. We’ll listen to what the supporting statement says, and we’ll also 
read the original arguments that they made in the proxy for their proposal, and they 
will read our reasons for voting against - that suggest voting against, because it’s an 
important topic. And I really hope that next year, if somebody from the controller’s 
office wishes to come out, we’d be glad to have even a more fulsome discussion of 
the subject. So with that, I will now recognize Mr. Hamburg to read a statement 
prepared by the controller of the city of New York in support of the motion. 
Marc Hamburg: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, fellow share 
owners. I’m Marc Hamburg from Berkshire Hathaway, and I’m here to present a 
proposal on behalf of the New York City comptroller Scott Stringer and the New 
York City pension funds. The funds have approximately $211 billion in assets as of 
February, and our substantial long-term Berkshire Hathaway share owners with 2.5 
million shares. Our proposal requests that Berkshire Hathaway board adopt a 
diversity search policy requiring that the initial candidates from which new director 
nominees and external CEOs are chosen include qualified female and racially or 
ethnically diverse candidates. 
First of all, we would like to commend the directors for the addition of Mr. Kenneth 
Chenault and the fact that 21% of the board is made up of women. We would also 
like to recognize that the executive pipeline includes diverse candidates including 
Mr. Ajit Jain, another board member. Secondly, we applaud Mr. Buffett’s recognition 
that women in the boardroom have historically been rare, and even more 
importantly, that although women won the right to have their voices heard in a 
voting booth a century ago, attaining similar status in a board room remains a work 
in progress. With our share owner proposal, what we are seeking is to nudge this 
particular process forward.  

Thirdly, one of the things that Mr. Buffett mentions is that he only buys businesses 
that have three criteria, the second of which is able and honest managers, and that 
the most important duty for a board is to find and retain a talented CEO. We would 
note that in reviewing Berkshire Hathaway’s largest stock market holdings of 
businesses, all ten of these companies have boards that meet our board diversity 
requirement. In essence, the companies that Berkshire Hathaway has found fit to 
invest in are those that have more diverse boards.  
Fourthly, we would like to clarify that through this shareholder proposal, we are not 
asking for the Berkshire Hathaway board, our guardians, to have a quantifiable end 
result in terms of its composition, but that an initial pool of candidates for a board 
seat include a woman and another individual who is racially or ethnically diverse. 
We believe these candidates, if qualified, would also have very high integrity, 
business-savvy shareholder orientation, and a genuine interest in the company. 
According to a 2016 Harvard Business Review study, including more than one 
woman or a member of a racial minority in a finalist pool helps combat the 
unconscious biases amongst interviewers and increases the likelihood of a diverse 
hire. What we are requesting is a small step in that direction to include diverse 
candidates at the beginning of the search.  
Finally, we would like to applaud Berkshire Hathaway’s robust internal CEO 
succession plans. Our proposal states that a CEO diversity policy should only apply 
in the case of an external search. The New York City comptroller’s office is 
disappointed that we never had the opportunity to discuss our proposal with 
directors or management but remain open to constructive engagement. In the 
interim, we strongly urge Berkshire Hathaway share owners to support proposal 
four. Thank you. 
Warren Buffett: Okay, thanks Marc, and thank you to the comptroller for presenting 
that supporting statement. The motion is now ready to be acted upon. Mr. Jaksich, 
when you are ready, you may give your report. 
Dan Jaksich: My report is ready. The ballot of the proxy holders in response to the 
proxies that were received through last Thursday evening cast 65,925 votes for the 
motion, and 485,824 votes against the motion. As the number of votes against the 
motion exceeds a majority of the number of votes of all class A and class B shares 
properly cast on the matter, as well as all votes outstanding, the motion has failed. 
The certification required by Delaware law of the precise count of the votes will be 
given to the secretary to be placed with the minutes of this meeting. 
Warren Buffett: Thank you Mr. Jaksich. The proposal fails. 
Debbie Bosanek: I move that this meeting be adjourned. 
Speaker 3: I second the motion to adjourn. 

Warren Buffett:  
The motion has been made and seconded. The meeting is adjourned. So thank you. 
I’ve just looked at my watch, and I talked a lot longer than I should have probably. 
That’s not a unique experience of mine that just occurred. So now we’re ready to 
have questions, which Becky quickly selected from those that’s been forwarded to 
her directly and from Carol Loomis and Andrew Ross Sorkin, and Greg and I are 
available to be -- we’ll be answering them for some time. So Becky, you’re on, and I 
hope all the tech -- I hope everything works. 
Becky Quick:  Warren, I should tell you that since you put that address up on the 
screen, I’ve gotten more than 2,500 emails that have been coming in. So there is a 
lot of demand from shareholders wanting to get in and ask questions, and I’ll ask 
some that we’ve compiled before and some that are coming in right now. The first 
question though comes from one that just came in based on the comments that you 
were actually saying. This is a question that comes from William Lewis. He said, 
“Please, did I understand correctly Mr. Buffett to say that Berkshire Hathaway sold 
its interest in four different airlines, and if so, can you name them? Can the names 
of those airlines be identified?” 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. I wouldn’t normally talk about it, but I think it requires an 
explanation, and it requires an explanation that means we were not disappointed at 
all in the businesses that were being run and the management, but we did come to 
a different opinion on it. They’re the four largest US airlines, American Airlines and 
Delta Airlines and Southwest Airlines and United Continental. And I think collectively 
they probably are at least 80% of the revenue passenger miles that is flowing in the 
United States and they have significant international flying too, excluding 
Southwest. So we like those airlines, but we don’t -- the world has changed for the 
airlines, and I don’t know how it’s changed, and I hope it corrects itself in a 
reasonably prompt way. I don’t know whether the Americans will have now changed 
their habits or will change their habits because of an extended period if it happens 
that we’re semi shut down in the economy. 
I don’t know whether the trends toward what people have been doing by phone. I 
mean, it’s been seven weeks since I’ve had a haircut. It’s been more than seven 
weeks since I put on a tie on or anything. It’s just a question of which sweat suit I 
wear. So who knows how we come out of this. But I think that there are certain 
industries, and unfortunately, I think the airline industry, among others, that are 
really hurt by a forced and in fact shut down by events that are far beyond their 
control. Greg, would you like to add anything to that? 
Greg Abel: Really nothing to add, Warren. 
Warren Buffett: Okay. We’ve got another Charlie here. 
Greg Abel: I didn’t intend to use that as a line, but you’ve covered it well. 

Warren Buffett: We would have bought other airlines, too, incidentally, but those 
were the four big ones. Those were the ones we could put some money into and we 
put whatever it was, seven or eight billion into it. And we did not take out anything 
like seven or eight billion. And that was my mistake. But it’s always a problem if 
there are things on the lower levels of probabilities that happen sometimes, and it 
happened to the airlines. And I’m the one who made the decision. 
Becky Quick: But, Warren, just to clarify on his question. He asked, “Did you sell 
your whole stake in all four of those companies?” 
Warren Buffett: Oh, yeah. The answer is yes. When we sell something, very often 
it’s going to be our entire stake. I mean, we don’t trim positions. That’s just not the 
way we approach it any more than if we buy a hundred percent of a business, we’re 
going to sell it down to 90% or 80%. I mean, if we like a business, we’re going to 
buy as much of it as we can and keep it as long as we can. Well, when we change 
our mind - go ahead, I’m sorry. 
Becky Quick: When you change your mind? 
Warren Buffett: Well, when we change our mind, we don’t take half measures or 
anything of the sort. So I was amazed at how frankly -- now, we were selling them at 
far lower prices than we paid. But I was amazed at the volume. Airlines always trade 
in large volume relatively, but we have sold the entire positions. 
Becky Quick: Okay. Thank you. The next question comes from Robert Tomas from 
Toronto, Canada, and he says, “Warren, why are you recommending listeners to 
buy now yet you’re not comfortable buying now as evidenced by your huge cash 
position?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, A, as I explained, the position isn’t that huge. When I look at 
worst case possibilities, I would say that there are things that I think are quite 
improbable. And I hope they don’t happen, but that doesn’t mean they won’t 
happen. I mean, for example, in our insurance business, we could have the world’s, 
or the country’s, number one hurricane that it’s ever had, but that doesn’t preclude 
the fact that we could have the biggest earthquake a month later. So we don’t 
prepare ourselves for a single problem. We prepare ourselves for problems that 
sometimes create their own momentum. I mean 2008 and ‘09, you didn’t see all the 
problems the first day, when what really kicked it off was when the Freddie and 
Fannie, the GSEs went into conservatorship in early September. And then when 
money market funds broke the buck. There are things to trip other things, and we 
take very much a worst-case scenario into mind that probably is a considerably 
worse case than most people do. 
So I don’t look at as huge, and I’m not recommending that people buy stocks today 
or tomorrow or next week or next month. I think it all depends on your 
circumstances, but you shouldn’t buy stocks unless you expect, in my view, you 

expect to hold them for a very extended period and you are prepared financially and 
psychologically to hold them, the same way you would hold a farm and never look at 
a quote and never pay -- you don’t need to pay attention to them. I mean, the main 
thing to do -- and you’re not going to pick the bottom, and nobody else can pick it 
for you or anything of the sort. You’ve got to be prepared when you buy a stock to 
have it go down 50% or more and be comfortable with it as long as you’re 
comfortable with the holding. 
And I pointed out, I think a year, maybe two years ago on the annual report -- just 
the one before this most recent one, I pointed out that there had been three times in 
Berkshire’s history when the price of Berkshire stock went down 50%. Three 
different times. Now if you own it on borrowed money, you could have been cleaned 
out. There wasn’t anything wrong with Berkshire when those three times occurred. 
But if you’re going to look at the price of the stock and think that you have to act 
because it’s doing this or that, or somebody else tells you, “How can you stay with 
that,” when something else is going up or anything. You’ve got to be in the right 
psychological position. And frankly, some people are not really careful. Some 
people are more subject to fear than others. 
It’s like the virus. It strikes some people with a much greater ferocity than others. 
And fear is something I really never felt financially, but I don’t think Charlie’s felt it 
either. But some people can handle it psychologically. If you can’t handle it 
psychologically, then you really shouldn’t own stocks because you’re going to buy 
and sell them at the wrong time. And you should not count on somebody else telling 
you this. You should do something you understand yourself. If you don’t understand 
it yourself, you’re going to be affected by the next person you talk to. And so you 
should be in a position to hold, and I don’t know whether today is a great day to buy 
stocks. I know it will work out over 20 or 30 years. I don’t know whether it’ll work out 
over two years at all. I have no idea whether you’ll be ahead or behind on a stock 
you buy on Monday morning, or the market. 
Becky Quick: Warren, the next question comes from Scott Kelly, and he writes in 
based on the numbers you just put up. He said, “What did you spend the $426 
million on equities in April? Was that adding to existing positions, or was that 
initiating new positions?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I don’t remember to tell you the truth, but one thing you have 
to allow for -- well, these are the figures for Berkshire Hathaway, and they include 
both Todd Combs and Ted Weschler manage significant sums of money. So it could 
well be something they bought. It could be something I bought. 462 million is not 
much money at Berkshire. It’s more Todd and Ted than it is to me in terms of our 
positions. But I literally have no memory of it. We’re not doing anything big 
obviously. We’re willing to do something very big. I mean, you could come to me on 
Monday morning with something that involved 30 or 40 billion or $50 billion, and if 
we really liked what we were seeing, we would do it and that will happen someday. 

 
If it happens in the market, we can’t put it all in on one day or one week or one 
month. It took us months to build up our airline position. Many months. We were 
able to sell them faster than we bought them, but we were selling them at lower 
prices. So the 462 is essentially meaningless and it may not have even -- it probably 
was not mine. 
Becky Quick: All right. This next question comes from Lee Dar, and his question is, 
“In the last financial crisis, Berkshire acted as a lender of support for eight different 
deals. Despite the injection of extensive capital through preferred stocks and 
securing warrants, these companies were in fact paying for the sign of confidence 
from Berkshire in the midst of a crisis and that was invaluable. Today we have QE 
Infinity, low interest rates, and hungry hedge funds, even though the economy has 
deteriorated rapidly over the last few months. Why have we not acted as a lender of 
support?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, we haven’t seen anything attractive. And, frankly, it wasn’t 
predicated on this, but the Federal Reserve did the right thing and they did it very 
promptly, which they should have and I salute them for it. But that means that a lot 
of companies that needed money and probably should have done their financing a 
little earlier, but they’re perfectly decent companies, got the chance to finance in 
huge ways in the last five weeks or thereabouts. I mean it set records. Some 
companies have come back twice, a number of very big companies that hadn’t 
bothered to extend out their borrowings, came a couple times. Berkshire actually 
raised some more money. We don’t need it, but I think it’s still a good idea over 
time. And then there are some pretty marginal companies that have also had access 
to money. So there is no shortage of funds at rates which we would not invest at. So 
we have not done anything because we don’t see anything that attractive to do. 
Now, that could change, very quickly or it may not change. But in 2008 and 2009, 
the truth is we weren’t buying those things to make a statement to the world. They 
may have made a statement to the world to some extent, and I’m glad that they did 
if they did, but we made them because they seemed intelligent things to do and 
markets were such that we didn’t really have much competition. Now it turned out 
that we would have been a lot better off if we’d waited four or five months to do 
similar things. 
So my timing was actually terrible in 2008 or 2009 but what was available was so 
attractive that even though my timing was terrible, we still came out okay or a little 
bit better than okay. But what we did was not designed to make a statement. It was 
designed to take advantage of what we thought were very attractive terms, but they 
were terms that nobody else was willing to offer at that time because the market 
was in a state of panic. And the market in equities was in a state of panic for a short 
period of time when the virus broke out or spread in the United States. And it 
became apparent and the debt market was frozen, or in the process of freezing, and 
that changed dramatically when the Fed acted. But who knows what happens next 
week or next month or next year? The Fed doesn’t know. I don’t know. And nobody 

knows. There’s a lot of different scenarios that can play out and under some 
scenarios, we’ll spend a lot of money and other scenarios, we won’t. Greg, you’ve 
been watching what’s been happening around Berkshire. 
Greg Abel: Yeah. Well, I think your comment on the Fed, Warren, as you know, 
interestingly when it was first occurring, there were calls coming in - not the size of 
transactions we’re interested in nor companies we were inclined to act upon but 
there was that general interest out there as people were in a difficult point in time, 
looking at their balance sheet and deciding what they were going to do. But the 
reality is those companies were not of interest and post basically effectively March 
23rd, the companies have been able to act. And Warren touched on it, at Berkshire 
Hathaway Energy, post the Fed action, we actually issued $4 billion of securities 
that was associated with debts or obligations. We had maturing some short-term 
obligations we wanted to clearly lengthen out, and we pre-funded one of our capital 
programs at Pacific Corp. with the thought this was the time to get the funds in 
place such that we could proceed with what is really an excellent opportunity both 
for Pacific Corporate customers and ultimately for the Berkshire shareholders.So 
we’ve taken action within Berkshire as Warren noted. 
Warren Buffett: This is a very good time to borrow money, which means it may not 
be such a great time to lend money, but it’s good for the country that it’s a good time 
to borrow money, not good for Berkshire particularly, although we borrowed some 
money. So we’ve put our money where our mouth is. 
Becky Quick: That gets kind of to another question that came in from Mark 
McNicholas in Chicago, Illinois. He says, “Berkshire itself has a Fort Knox like 
balance sheet, but some of its operating companies may be tight on cash during the 
pandemic. Would Berkshire consider sending cash to its operating companies to, 
one, ensure that they can get through the pandemic and, two, allow them to 
increase market share while their competitors struggle?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, we’ve sent money to a few and we’re in a position to do that. 
We’re not going to send money indefinitely to anything where it looks like their 
future is not - it’s changed dramatically from what it was a year or so ago or just 
even six months ago. You know, we made that decision in terms of the airline 
business. We took money out of the business basically, even at a substantial loss, 
and we will not fund a company where we think that it’s going to chew up money in 
the future. 
We started out with a company like that in our textile business at Berkshire 
Hathaway in 1965 and we went for 20 years trying to think we could solve 
something that wasn’t that solvable. So we are not in the business of subsidizing 
any companies with shareholders’ money. If people want to do that with their own 
money, but we’re not going to do it on their behalf. But we have advanced money, 
we are perfectly ready to advance money, gaining market share and all that. That 

may happen, but the companies that need money probably, market share is not 
their number one problem. I’ll put it that way. Greg, would you? 
Greg Abel:  Well, yeah. It’s interesting when we look at our different companies as 
we went into the pandemic or we’re addressing the COVID 19 crisis. Obviously, the 
first focus by our management team and appropriately was our employees and 
effectively making sure they’re safe and that the business environment we’re in, that 
they could continue to operate. Then we quickly moved to looking at where our 
customers were in the cycle, i.e., what was the underlying demand within the 
business? And to great credit to our managers, they very much have adjusted their 
businesses consistent with the underlying needs and demands of our customer. So 
effectively they’re moving with the customer, meaning very few of our businesses 
have actually required funds. Some have. And as Warren said, we’ve advanced the 
funds to them, but the businesses have really reacted in a way where they’re 
managing consistent with where the market’s at, i.e., the demand for their products. 
Warren Buffett: Berkshire is almost certain to generate cash. I mean, nothing’s a 
hundred percent certain, but as Greg mentioned, at Berkshire Hathaway Energy, we 
had some short-term financing. We don’t have short-term financing to any degree. 
We’ll never get ourselves in a position where we have a lot of money that can come 
due tomorrow. And people that were financing heavily with commercial paper and 
then found their business stopped. Well, you’ve seen what’s happened to the 
airlines. I mean, they need money. Cruise lines need money.There’s some 
businesses, it’s just the nature of what they’re in. Berkshire will never get it in a 
position where it needs money. And we factor in, like I said, we factor in some 
things that are not ridiculously unlikely. And I’m not going to spell out scenarios 
because I, to some extent, you start spelling out scenarios, you may increase the 
chance of them happening. So it’s not something that we really want to talk about a 
lot, but our position will be to stay a Fort Knox. 
We don’t need a hundred and, it’s a little higher now than it was at quarter end, we 
don’t need 130 or 35 billion, but we need a lot of money that’s always available. And 
that means we own nothing but treasury bills. I mean, we’ve never owned, we never 
buy commercial paper. We don’t count on bank lines and a few of our subsidiaries 
have them, but we basically want to be in a position to get through anything. And we 
hope that doesn’t happen, but you can’t rule out the possibility anymore than in 
1929 you could rule out the possibility that, you know, you would be waiting until 
1955, or the end of 1954, to get even. Anything can happen and we want to be 
prepared for anything, but we also want to do big things, if the prices are attractive. 
As Greg said, there was a period right before the Fed acted, we were starting to get 
calls. They weren’t attractive calls, but we were getting calls, and the companies we 
were getting calls from after the Fed acted, a number of them were able to get 
money in the public market in frankly terms we wouldn’t have given it to them. 
Becky Quick:All right. This next question is one that Greg, you actually touched on 
the answer to this to some extent, but maybe the two of you could expand on it. It 

comes from Richard from Tucson, Arizona. He says, “Berkshire’s annual report 
indicated the Berkshire had 391,539 employees at the end of 2019. Which areas of 
our operations have already been hardest hit or will be by the coronavirus pandemic 
and what are the implications for the continued employment of those people?” 
Warren Buffett: Those people are employed in dozens and dozens of different 
industries and there are a few industries that there’s a fair likelihood that our 
employment could be reduced, but they’re not large. I’m just thinking as I’m talking, 
it’s not like we’re in some of the businesses that are -- we’re not in the hotel 
business or various aspects of travel and entertainment and all of that could really 
be changed in a very major way. 
So I don’t see our employment -- I’ll put it this way, five years from now, I think 
Berkshire will be employing considerably more people, and I don’t see where we’ll 
have large dips, but the virus could take off in certain ways, that in some of our 
manufacturing businesses, for example, the demand could be dramatically reduced. 
And in those cases, we would have layoffs at some point. Greg? 
Greg Abel: What I would add, Warren, is that as we are in the sort of crux of the 
pandemic, we’re still dealing with it. So our businesses have adjusted. Some have 
had to adjust more than we have. If you look at Berkshire Hathaway Energy, for 
example, you can see US electricity consumption is down 4%. That realistically 
doesn’t impact our business in a significant way. And long term we’ll continue to 
grow that business. So even during the crisis, a relatively small impact to the 
business. But as Warren knows, we do have retailers that their doors are shut right 
now, be it our See’s Candy, some of our jewelers. And at that point in time, we do 
adjust and adapt to the environment. i.e., we adjust our workforce. But equally we 
do see, for example, a point our stores will reopen and at that point we reemploy the 
folks. And overall for Berkshire as a whole, as Warren said, five years from now, we 
see our employment numbers being far greater than they are today and that we see 
great prospects within the operating businesses as a whole. 
Warren Buffett: See’s is an interesting example because we’ve owned that since 
1972. That’s a long time and we love it and we continue to love it. And I have a box 
here of our peanut brittle and I’ve got another box of fudge right here and I’ll 
probably take them all home and not share with Greg. But we were in the midst of 
our Easter season, and Easter is a big sales period for See’s, and I don’t know 
whether we were halfway through, but we weren’t halfway through in terms of the 
volume that’s going to be delivered because it comes toward the end and 
essentially we were shut down and we remain shut down. The malls that -- we’ve 
got 220 or so retail stores and we’ve got a lot of -- Furniture Mart sells our candy. 
But the Furniture Mart’s closed down. And so See’s business stopped and it’s a very 
seasonal business to start with. So we have a lot of seasonal workers, too, that 
come in, particularly for the Christmas season. But we have a lot Easter candy, and 
Easter candy is kind of specialized, too. So we won’t sell it and we produced a good 

bit of it. We couldn’t ship it, we couldn’t put it in stores and there’s some of that 
going on. 
And then, of course, Greg does all the work on those sort of situations and our 
managers are terrific, of course, in dealing with it, but this is a very, very unusual 
period. And like I say, a few years from now, I think Berkshire will be employing 
more people than 395,000. Over the years, we started with 2000 in the textile 
business, and we’ve still got the same playbook. 
Becky Quick: This next question comes from Drew Johnson who says that he’s a 
longtime shareholder who’s attended a couple of meetings. He says, “In an 
interview on April 17th, Charlie mentioned that some small businesses owned by 
Berkshire would not reopen after the pandemic eases. Can you elaborate on which 
businesses might be impacted?” 
Warren Buffett: We have businesses within businesses. At Marmon, don’t we have 
97 different businesses, for example? 
Greg Abel: Exactly. Yep. 
Warren Buffett:  And there are some that’s weren’t doing that well before, and I’m 
not talking about Marmon specifically, but there’s a couple of them. And it may be 
that in effect, what’s happened in the last couple of months has accelerated the 
decline of those businesses or their customers are developing different habits. 
People are developing different habits in retail. There’s no question about that. Now 
that doesn’t mean we haven’t got a bunch of good retail businesses, but there are 
businesses that were having problems before and that have even greater problems 
now. We don’t own our newspapers anymore, but we’re financing the enterprise 
which does have them. We’ve actually increased our investment in the newspaper 
business by selling the papers to Lee and then refinancing their debt. And the 
newspaper business was having plenty of problems with both circulation and 
advertising before the virus came along. But advertising declines have accelerated 
fairly dramatically. And when the automobile industry stops, the auto dealers don’t 
advertise and it’s made certain businesses that were tough before even tougher 
now and management of at least one of the subsidiaries has suggested to us and so 
there’ll be some changes in a few businesses, but they’re very small businesses. 
Our major businesses and our business of intermediate size, I can’t think of 
anything that’s of significance that won’t reopen, but it won’t be any fun with the 
businesses where the world has really changed. You’re seeing a lot of change. 
If you own a shopping center, you’ve got a bunch of tenants that don’t want to pay 
you right now. And the supply and demand for retail space may change fairly 
significantly. The supply and demand for office space may change significantly. A 
lot of people have learned that they can work at home or that there’s other methods 

of conducting their business than they might’ve thought from what they were doing a 
couple of years ago. And when change happens in the world, you adjust to it. 
Greg Abel: Well, I was just going to add on the Marmon example, our 97 companies 
there, for example, we have a food service group which sells equipment to a variety 
of the restaurants. We have a few businesses that realistically were challenged 
when the industry was performing really well. And as we come out of the crisis, their 
economic prospects aren’t going to be better. And in fairness to the teams and the 
employees in there, they understand that and they’re working through it and there’ll 
be other opportunities potentially within the company, within Marmon, and things 
like that. But there’s a very specific answer or example relative to the question. 
Becky Quick: This next question is a follow-up on that. It comes from Chris Fareed 
of Philadelphia. And he says, “It’s been a long-term policy of Berkshire to not sell or 
close any ongoing subsidiaries as long as their business prospects weren’t a money 
hole.” Over the last year, he points out the sale of Berkshire Hathaway media. And 
then Charlie’s comments from that interview saying that several small Berkshire 
subsidiaries will not be opening when the coronavirus lockdown is lifted.”  So should 
shareholders assume that Berkshire has now changed its long-term policy in 
regards to keeping underperforming subsidiaries around?” 
Warren Buffett: I think that policies were spelled out for maybe 30 years or so. An 
addendum in the annual report that we have said that if a company, or if an 
operation, we think that its prospects are that it will continually lose money in the 
future, that we’ll try to sell it to somebody else. But one way or another, we will not 
continue to hold it. And that is not a new policy and it’s not been changed. You can 
say in effect we did that with the airline industry to some extent. If we owned all of 
an airline now, it would be a tough decision, A,  to decide whether to sustain billions 
of dollars in operating losses when you don’t know how long it’s going to happen or 
occur, and secondly, you know that it’s very likely that there’ll be too many planes 
around. And we know what happens in airline pricing, when both factors go down 
and there’s an oversupply of airline seats. So we didn’t have to make that decision 
in terms of our own operation on it, but we did make a decision that that’s a very 
tough management decision to make. And the government, of course, is -- well, 
they’ve had the first wave of financing for the airlines. But to the airlines’ credit, they 
have very aggressively raised money. I mean, it’s amazing to me what a good job 
they’ve done of that. And I think in the case of three of them, no, two of them, but 
there may be more coming, that they’ve raised equity money, too. They are saying 
that the debt holders and investors, you’ve got to put more money into this business 
if we’re going to be able to continue. And the government’s done it. And private 
sources have done it and it’s exactly the right thing for the managements to be 
doing. But whether it makes sense, we’ll find out for the investors. 
Becky Quick: This next question comes from Eric LaFont and it’s directed to Greg. 
He asks, “How is Precision Castparts handling the severe slowdown in the 
aerospace industry?” 

Greg Abel: So very consistent with everything we’ve just discussed, which is 
obviously a large part of their business is the aerospace industry, and it can really 
be broken into three areas but two are being impacted. The defense contract 
business remains very sound and strong within Precision Castparts, but if you look 
at the large body aircraft, the aircraft that they use within the regional jets, that 
business will move directly with the demand there and the jets that are ordered 
longer-term. So Precision Castparts is literally as we speak continuing to adjust their 
business relative to the demand that would come out of Boeing. They would be 
having weekly calls with Boeing, recognizing what are their production orders there 
and adjusting the business accordingly. 
Warren Buffett: Boeing raised 25 billion just a day or two ago, and they raised 14 
billion before that. And a year ago they felt they were in a fine cash position and I 
understand how all that happened. Airbus has had the same situation. They’ve 
made some comments recently within the last week. The fact that they really don’t 
know what their future is, and I don’t know what their future is. We’re going to have 
aircraft in this country, we’re going to be flying. But the real question is whether you 
need a lot of new planes or not and when you’re likely to need them. And it affects a 
lot of people and it certainly affects Precision Castparts. It affects General Electric. 
It obviously affects Boeing and it is a blow to essentially have your demand dry up 
and it goes up the chain. The aircraft manufacturers didn’t bring it on themselves. 
The airlines didn’t bring it on themselves. Precision Castparts didn’t bring it on itself. 
General Electric didn’t. It’s basically that we shut off air travel in this country, and 
what that does to people’s habits and how they behave in the future, it’s just hard to 
evaluate. 
I don’t know the answer, but we do know that it will have an effect on Precision 
Castparts. And how severe it will be depends on the same sort of variables that are 
hitting Boeing. Then you name the company in aircraft and aircraft is a big business. 
And this country is good at it incidentally, too. 
I mean if you think about Boeing, it is one hell of a company and it’s important. It’s a 
huge exporter and it affects a lot of jobs and some of them are with us. We hope for 
the best and we wish everybody the best, obviously and we wish ourselves the best 
in it, but part of it is certainly out of our control. 
Greg Abel: Right. 
Becky Quick: This next question is for Warren.  “Do you think Geico will experience 
unusually high profitability in 2020 due to the reduced amount of driving, even after 
giving customers a 15% credit?” 
Warren Buffett: We have promised to give our customers -- at Geico we’re the 
second largest auto insurance company and different auto insurers are handling a 
sharing of the better experience with their policyholders in different ways. 

Our plan will deliver back two and a half billion roughly or so in recognizing the 
reduced frequency of accidents during this period, what we don’t know is how long 
this will continue. I mean, people want to drive their cars still, but conditions have 
reduced that driving dramatically obviously. 
Now, we have instituted a program that runs saving people money for six months 
and so far other people have largely been two months, but some of them have given 
a little more for those two months than we get per month. Our total is the greatest at 
two and a half billion. 
And in addition to that, we and all the others in the industry, it’s not just Geico, and 
insurance commissioners in many cases, I believe they required it, but we give 
people more time to pay if they aren’t paying, and if they canceled our policy or if 
they don’t end up paying us, we end up in effect giving them free insurance during 
that period. And the delay in payments has obviously increased. Delay of payments 
on, if you’ve got of a shopping center getting rent, the delay in payments is what 
happens during a period like this, and that will be a significant cost to us. We don’t 
know how significant it will be. 
There will be more uninsured motorists driving and they cause a disproportionate 
amount of accidents. So there’s a lot of variables. We made our best guess as to 
what we’re going to do to reflect the current reduced accidents in our premiums that 
we receive, really over the next year. It applies for six months on renewals, but we’ll 
be renewing policies in October that will extend it, then next April, and so we’ve 
made a guess on it and we’ll see how it works out. 
Becky Quick: This next question comes from Steven Staller. He’s a shareholder in 
Atlanta, Georgia, and he says, “Would you please help us understand what the 
effects of COVID-19 are on our insurance businesses? Other insurance companies 
have reported losses from boosting reserves for future insurance claims that they 
expect to be paying as a result of Coronavirus. Yet in Berkshire’s 10Q released this 
morning, we do not appear to have reported much of these future expected losses. 
Can you tell us why this is the case? What kind of risks Berkshire is underwriting 
that allows us not to be affected by the pandemic or conversely, what we are writing 
that might be?” 
Well, the amount of litigation that is going to be generated out of what’s already 
happened, let alone what may happen, is going to be huge. Now, just the cost of 
defending litigation is huge, an enormous expense, depending on how much there 
is. 
Now, in the auto insurance field, which is our number one field in terms of premium 
volume by some margin, that’s more definable, but who knows what comes out of it 
in terms of litigation. But in what they call commercial multiple peril, which involves 
property losses and where some people elect to buy business interruption 
coverage, many policies quite clearly in the contract language would not have a 

claim for business interruption under a commercial multiple peril policy where 
you’ve elected that. But other policies do I know of -- I think I know of one company, 
I don’t know the details, that’s written a fair amount where they cover or certainly 
there’s a good argument perhaps that they cover business interruption that might 
arise from a pandemic. 
Well, they’re in a very different position than the standard language which says that 
you recover for business interruption only if it involves physical damage to the 
property. And you can buy all kinds of different policies. We are not big in the 
commercial multiple peril business. So I mean, this is not like our auto business or 
anything of that sort, but we will have claims. We’ll have litigation costs, but 
proportionally it’s not the same with us as with some other companies, which have 
been much heavier in writing business interruption as part of a commercial multiple 
peril. But you don’t automatically get coverage if you have business interruption. 
I mean, for example, I think it would be unusual if say General Motors had a strike, 
which they did, and that they have business interruption that covers a strike. We 
actually wrote about, probably the only annual report in the United States, we wrote 
about business interruption insurance because we had it over in France, when one 
of our properties was adjacent to a much smaller property that had a fire and then it 
spread to our plant and it caused a lot of physical damage and we have business 
interruption that ties in with that. But if we had some company we were selling auto 
parts to and they had a strike, our business would be interrupted, but that is not part 
of the coverage, unless you specifically really buy it. So, there’s some claims that 
are going to be very valid and related to the present situation. There’ll be an awful 
lot that there’ll be litigation on that won’t be valid. 
And there’s no question that some insurance companies, I know one particular, that 
will pay a lot of money relative to their size in terms of policies that they’ve written. 
And I think we have reserved, and our history shows we generally have reserved on 
the conservative side, adequately at least. And that’s certainly our intent. And we 
tell no managers of any of our insurance operations what numbers we expect from 
them or do any of that. They evaluate their losses and they build in something for 
social inflation. They build in things for all kinds of things. And, generally speaking, 
Berkshire has been pretty accurate in its reserving. And I have no reason to think 
that we’re otherwise than that currently. 
Becky Quick: A tenured Berkshire shareholder writes in and he says, “Do you see 
Berkshire offering pandemic coverage in future insurance policies?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, the answer is, we insure a lot of things. Sure. We had 
somebody come to us the other day wanting insurance involving a $10 billion 
protection on something very unusual. We’re not going to make that deal in all 
probability. In fact, I would say it’s dead. But we would have written pandemic 
insurance if people had come to us and offered us what we thought was the right 
price. We would have been wrong probably in doing it. But we have no reluctance to 

quote on very unusual things and very big limits. We’re famous for it. We haven’t 
done that much of it in certain periods because the prices aren’t right. But if you 
want to come and insure almost anything, and we don’t want you to insure against 
fire if you happen to be a known arsonist or something. But if you come to us with 
any unusual coverages, either in size or in the nature of what’s covered, Berkshire 
is a very good place to stop. And so if somebody wants to dream up the coverage 
and they can tell us the price they’ll pay, we’ll consider writing it. 
We wrote a lot of business after 9/11, for example. And there were really only a 
couple companies in the world that were willing to write the business. And Berkshire 
and AIG wrote a lot of business and we thought we knew what we were doing but 
we could have been surprised. I mean there could have been some follow on 
incidents from 9/11 that we wouldn’t have known about. You don’t know for sure the 
answer. That’s why people are buying insurance. But we would be willing to write 
pandemic coverage at the right price. 
Becky Quick: This next question is for Greg and it comes from a shareholder named 
Todd Flaska. He says, “I don’t expect Berkshire to outperform the S&P 500 during 
good times. However, I remain a long-term investor because of the huge war chest 
that can be deployed during the downturns in the market, like we’re seeing right 
now. Warren has been brilliant at negotiating mutually favorable deals with 
companies that have somewhat urgent capital needs during these down-times. 
These opportunities may only come about once a decade. There’s a small window 
of time for these deals. They all come at once and you don’t really know if you’re at 
the bottom of the market when the deals start coming. Will Berkshire be able to 
continue this approach when Warren and Charlie are no longer at the helm?” 
Greg Abel: Fundamentally, without Warren and Charlie at the helm, I don’t see the 
culture of Berkshire changing. I don’t see our billet, which a large part of that is 
having the business acumen to understand the transaction, the economic prospects 
and then the ability to act quickly, I really don’t see that changing as we - well listen, 
there’s no one better than Warren and Charlie, but equally we’ve got a talented 
team in Berkshire both at the Berkshire level and within our managers that can 
obviously look at opportunities, too, very quickly, but the reality is it’s a huge 
advantage we have right now, and we would clearly want to be in a position to 
maintain that position of strength. Warren? 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we will maintain it. And we not only have it with the managers 
in some cases, not all cases by a long shot, but in some cases, we have managers 
that will occasionally come up with something that can be quite attractive. But 
between Greg and Todd and Ted, we’ve got three extraordinarily good buyers in 
terms of allocating capital and I and Charlie – we may get an occasional call 
because of someone we knew 20 years ago or something. But they know a lot more 
people. They’ve got a lot more energy and their minds work the same way as ours 
have in the past. So I think it could very well be a significant improvement when the 

three of them are thinking about capital allocation than when Charlie and I are now, 
particularly now that he’s found Zoom. 
Becky Quick: All right. This next question comes from Max Rudolph in Omaha, 
Nebraska. And he asks if Berkshire or any of its fully own businesses have 
participated in any of the bailouts from the fed or the treasury? 
Warren Buffett: I certainly don’t know of any. I guess you could say while we owned 
the airlines. Well, no, the question is about fully owned businesses and there’s no 
way that I wouldn’t know about anybody that did any of that. Greg? 
Greg Abel: No. In fact, we’ve been very clear with the businesses, but our 
businesses understood how Berkshire operates and equally we’re very clear that we 
would not be participating in any of those programs or quote bailouts. 
Becky Quick: This is a similarly related question. It comes from Seth Friedman who 
says “As a long-term shareholder of Berkshire B shares, I’d like to know Warren’s 
viewpoint around smaller holdings, specifically Oriental Trading Company and 
Nebraska Furniture Mart that are based in your hometown of Omaha.” He imagines 
that those smaller business units have been adversely impacted by COVID shelter-
in-place mandates. So he would like to know if Oriental Trading or other small 
business units applied for PPP loans or participated in those acts. And if they didn’t 
qualify for a loan or didn’t participate, then how will Berkshire support those smaller 
businesses to make sure that they can continue to employ their employees? 
Warren Buffett: Well, to my knowledge, none of them have gone in for government 
money. And the two that are mentioned, I don’t like to get into specific companies, 
but I can assure you that the Nebraska Furniture Mart and Oriental Trading in my 
view have a fine future. But I don’t want to go down the list obviously of every single 
company because some of them I don’t know the answer to. We actually decided 
some time ago that our newspapers would have a much better chance of surviving if 
they were run as part of Lee than if we ran them independently. And, as I said 
earlier, we actually put considerably more money -- we probably put more money in 
the newspaper business than virtually anybody in the country in the last six months. 
Because we took over a loan that would have been a problem in the year, whatever 
it might’ve been, maybe a year and a half. And we enable them to just deal with one 
lender rather than a group. And they are doing a better job with the newspapers 
then we would do. And that’s always our preference. If we’ve got a business that 
looks like it is not going to sustain itself over time in our hands, if we can find 
somebody else that we think will do a better job, we’d love to have them run it. So if 
we have a problem business, we would prefer to find somebody that thinks they can 
do a better job and probably can do a better job of running than we can. But some 
businesses just are superior. We started with the textile business. We started a 
company called diversified retailing, which merged into Berkshire, became part of 
Berkshire and started with a department store in Baltimore. And department stores 
looked good in 1966 but the world has gone against them. And we had a trading 

stamp business at one time, and we stayed longer than anybody else, but the world 
left trading stamps behind. And that’s going to happen with some businesses. That’s 
capitalism. And it will happen to some Berkshire businesses over the next 10 years 
and the next 50 years. We think we’ll find more of them that will grow and that 
Berkshire will grow. But we do not think if you own a great many businesses that 
every one is destined for success. That’s why I suggest to people they buy an index 
fund. I do not, with the exception of Berkshire, I would not want to put all my money 
in any one company, although there’s a few, I wouldn’t mind being very close to 
that. But you get surprises in this world and there will be businesses that we think 
are very good that turn out not to be so good, and there will be other businesses 
that turn out better than we think and it’s up to the world to judge our batting 
average over time. Greg? 
Greg Abel: Well, I would just add and echo again that when it comes to the PPP 
loans, we’re not aware of any of our businesses taking them. And as I said, we 
encouraged them if they were ever thinking that, there was going to be a dialogue, 
and we’re not aware of any businesses pursuing them. I would also just add that 
when you look at our businesses as we went into the crisis, they responded very 
well. So, as we look at our businesses, and Warren touched on this, our large 
businesses, our mid-sized businesses and even as you go down from there, they’re 
in very sound shape as we go through the pandemic and are really preparing to 
emerge now. 
So they’re evaluating, listen, they’re going to have a different customer, there’s 
going to be different consumer behaviors, how our employees work. A lot of them 
work at home now, does that make sense? And the communities we’re operating in 
have all changed. But we’re literally moving from the point of, Okay, we’re making it 
through the crisis and really planning to reemerge now. And I would say our 
businesses are in an extremely sound place. 
Warren Buffett: We don’t how long this period lasts and nobody knows. Most people 
think, and they know more about it than I do, that the virus will, to some extent, 
decline in its spread during summer months. And I would say a good many think 
that it will come back at some later date. And how the American public reacts if they 
get their hopes up through some summer diminution and how they would react to a 
second attack, in effect, by the virus. It’s like Dr Fauci -- the virus is going to 
determine our behavior in a way. And we’re doing a lot of smart things and we’ve 
got a lot of very smart people, but there are unknowns. And the unknowns that 
apply to the health aspect create unknowns in the economy. And we’ll have to keep 
evaluating things as we go along. I hope, like crazy obviously, that once suppressed 
that it doesn’t come back and that we readjust. But things don’t always work 
perfectly. That doesn’t mean there was a better course of action that would not -- I 
would not go around criticizing people at all for what they’ve done or anything of the 
sort. I just think you’re dealing with a huge unknown. And I think that the degree to 
which it’s disturbed the world and changed habits and endangered businesses in 

the last couple of months indicates that you better not be too sure of yourself about 
what it’ll do in the next six months or year or whatever. 
Becky Quick: Warren, a moment ago you mentioned that you still are recommending 
that people invest in an S&P 500 index fund. Let me ask this question that came in 
from Kevin. He says “The last few weeks we’ve been hearing from active money 
managers that the day of passive investing is over. The historical safety of investing 
in an index fund long-term is gone. Would you please provide your thoughts on this 
topic, particularly in regards to an investment time span of 10 years?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I can tell you I haven’t changed my will and it directs that my 
widow would have 90% of the funds in index funds and I think it’s better advice than 
people are generally getting from people that are getting paid a lot to give others 
advice. You don’t make a lot of money advising an S&P 500 index fund. And how 
you can say the day of index funds is over? I mean, if you say the day of investing 
in America is over, I would disagree quite violently. And then if there’s something 
special about index funds being a terrible way to invest, I just don’t think -- it’s very 
hard to have evidence of that. I mean, if the index funds reflect the market and one 
side has high fees that think they can pick out stocks and the other side has low 
fees, I know which side is going to win over time. 
And you have to recognize that it’s in a great many people’s interest to convince 
you that they can do something, that they may well even believe they can. And a 
certain percentage of them will do it from luck and a few people will do it from skill. 
And that’s what makes it so enticing that you can find the Jim Simons or somebody 
that’s going to produce an extraordinary return. And Jim and his group have done it 
by brainpower, but that’s very unusual and incidentally they are going to charge you 
a lot of money and they’re going to actually maybe close up their fund if they do it 
because they can’t do it with really huge amounts of money compared to how the 
record has been established in the past. You just have to recognize you’re dealing 
with an industry where it pays to be a great salesperson and it pays even better if 
you’re a great salesperson and you can actually produce something. But the money 
is in selling. There’s a lot more money in selling than in managing, actually, if you 
look to the essence of investment management. 
Becky Quick: I got a number of variations on this next question, some more polite 
than others. This one’s right about down-the-middle. But this is from Mark Blakely  
who writes in from Tulsa, Oklahoma, and he says “Like many, I’m a proud Berkshire 
Hathaway shareholder. However, in comparing the performance of Berkshire with 
the S&P 500 over the last 5, 10 or 15 years, I’ve been disappointed in Berkshire’s 
under-performance. Even year to date, Berkshire is trailing the S&P 500 by 8%. To 
what would you attribute Berkshire’s under-performance? While I can’t imagine ever 
selling my Berkshire stock at some point, money is money.” 
Warren Buffett: No, I agree with everything that, I forgot his name, just said. I mean 
the truth is that I recommend the S&P 500 to people. And I happen to believe that 

Berkshire is about as solid as any single investment can be in terms of earning 
reasonable returns over time. But I would not want to bet my life on whether we beat 
the S&P 500 over the next 10 years. I obviously think there’s a reasonable chance 
of doing it, and we’ve had periods, I don’t know how many out of the 50, 55 years 
we’ve been doing it or I don’t know how many we’ve beaten or not. I mentioned 
earlier that 1954 was my best year, but I was working with absolutely peanuts, 
unfortunately. And, I think if you work with small sums of money, I think there is 
some chance of a few people that really do bring something to the game, 
but I think it’s very hard for anybody to identify them. And I think that when they 
work with large funds, it gets tougher. And it’s certainly gotten tougher for us with 
larger funds. And I would make no promise to anybody that we will do better than 
the S&P 500. But what I will promise them is that I’ve got 99% of my money in 
Berkshire. And most members of my family may not be quite that extreme, but 
they’re close to it. And I do care about what happens to Berkshire over the long 
period about as much as anybody could care about it. But caring doesn’t guarantee 
results. It does guarantee attention. Greg? 
Greg Abel: Well, I would agree, Warren, that there’s never guarantees. But when I 
look at the assets we have in place and the teams that are in place - you’re 
committed to Berkshire, but we have dedicated teams that equally are dedicated to 
Berkshire and they’re sure going to give it their best effort every day. And, when I 
look at the assets and the people, I think we have, as you said, you can’t guarantee 
it, but we have a great chance of sure giving a good effort to outperform it. 
Warren Buffett: It’s hard to imagine getting a terrible result with Berkshire but, 
anything could happen. And what I do know is it would be easier to be running 5 
million than - our book net worth at Berkshire at the quarter end I think was three 
hundred and seventy some billion, which is down, but it’s still greater than the book 
net worth of any corporation in the United States. I mean, maybe there’s some 
federal corporation that has more, but in terms of - and it may be the greatest in the 
world. I’m not sure. And that makes life difficult in some ways, too. 
Greg Abel: Right, and the potential of our operating businesses are substantial. 
We’ve talked about energy, you touched on it, that infrastructure is continuing to 
change. We’re ready for a hundred billion dollars of investment opportunities there. 
If we just look at the business over the next 10 years and the infrastructure that’s 
required and how it’s changing substantial investments there, that just tells me we 
have very good prospects and we’re well positioned to pursue them. Which again to 
me, when you look at our core business, you touched on in Burlington, the 
insurance and energy, our downside is very nicely protected. We have three really 
core great businesses. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. And we’re better positioned than anybody in the energy 
business just because we don’t have dividend requirements. We retained 28 billion 
of earnings over 20 years. You can’t do it if you run a normal public company. And 
we’ve got a huge appetite, and the country needs it, the world needs it. And we are 

a very logical, well structured, well managed, I would say, because it doesn’t involve 
me, a company to participate in just huge requirements around the world now. 
They’re slow and they involve state governments. And there’s a lot of - it’s not 
anything that happens dramatically. It will happen and Berkshire should participate 
in a huge way. 
We can do things in insurance nobody else can do. That doesn’t mean much at 
many times but occasionally it may be important. So, there are some advantages to 
size and strength. But there are disadvantages to size, too. If we find some great 
opportunity for a billion dollars to double our money, that’s a billion pretax and that’s 
790 million after tax. And on a market value of 450 billion or whatever it may be, that 
doesn’t amount to much, unfortunately. We’ll still try and do it if we can. 
Becky Quick: I want to ask this question that came in because I think some people 
may have had a misinterpretation about something you said a few minutes ago. This 
is the benefit of being able to get these questions real time, but a few moments ago 
you were talking about the people at the company who will be allocating capital after 
you and Charlie are no longer doing it and you mentioned that you’ve got Todd, Ted 
and Greg all doing that, but I’ve gotten a few questions that read similar to this. This 
one’s from Edward Popula in New York city who says, “Dear Warren, I noticed you 
didn’t mention Ajit Jain when you reeled off your list of future management, is he out 
of the picture? 
Warren Buffett: Well, Ajit is not in the capital allocation business. He is the best - 
well, he’s got one of the best minds in the world. I mean, I wrote his father after he 
worked for us for a few years. I wrote him again the other day. But 20 years ago I 
wrote him and I said, If you’ve got another son like this, send him over from India 
because we’ll own the world. No, Ajit is one of a kind. Anybody will tell you that’s 
had any contact with him, and particularly anybody in the insurance business where 
they know him well, he is absolutely one of a kind. But his job is not capital 
allocation. It’s evaluating insurance risks and that is a rare - he possesses a rare 
talent and he has a huge capital backing to do it. So he’s an incredible asset. 
But Greg and Todd and Ted have been in the asset allocation business in a big way 
for a long time. That’s their game. And Ajit’s game is insurance. So that’s why I 
mentioned those three. And, incidentally, while Charlie and I are around, we kind of 
like capital allocation ourselves. So we’re not going any place voluntarily, but we 
probably will go someplace involuntarily before too long. Charlie’s in good health 
incidentally. I’m in good health. 
Becky Quick: Greg, let me ask you one of these capital allocation questions. This 
one comes from Matt Libel and he says “Berkshire directed 46% of capital 
expenditure in 2019 to Berkshire Hathaway Energy. Can you walk us through with 
round numbers how you think differences in CapEx spending versus economic 
depreciation versus gap depreciation and help explain the timeframe over which we 

should recognize the contract of return on equity from these large investments, as 
we as shareholders are making in Berkshire Hathaway Energy?” 
Greg Abel: So when we look at Berkshire Hathaway Energy and their capital 
programs, we try to really look at it as it was highlighted really in a couple of 
different packages. One, what does it actually require to maintain the existing 
assets for the next 10, 20 ,30 years, i.e., it’s not incremental, it’s effectively 
maintaining the asset, the reflection of depreciation. And our goal is always to 
clearly understand across our businesses, do we have businesses that require more 
than our depreciation or equal or less? And I’m happy to say with the assets we 
have in place and how we’ve maintained the energy assets, we generally look at our 
depreciation as being more than adequate if we deploy it back into capital to 
maintain the asset. Now the unique thing in the lion’s share of our energy 
businesses that are regulated and that exceeds 85% of them, 83% of them, we still 
earn on that capital we deploy back into that business. So it’s not a traditional model 
where you’re putting it in, but you’re effectively putting it into maintain your existing 
earnings stream. So it’s not drastically different, but we do earn on that capital. 
But what we do spend a lot of time, and that’s when Warren and I think about the 
substantial amounts of opportunities, that’s incremental capital that is truly needed 
within new opportunities. So it’s to build incremental wind, incremental transmission, 
that services the wind or other types of renewable, solar. That’s all incremental to 
the business and drives incremental both growth in the business. It does require 
capital, but it does drive growth within the energy business. So there’s really the two 
buckets. I think we would use a number a little bit lower than the depreciation. We’re 
comfortable the business can be maintained at that level and as we deploy amounts 
above that, we really do view that as quote incremental or growth CapEx. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we have what, 40 billion or something? What do we have  
sort of kind of in the works? 
Greg Abel: So we have basically, as Warren’s highlighting, 40 billion in the works of 
capital. That’s over the next effectively nine years, 10-year period, approximately 
half of that we would view as maintaining our assets. A little more than half of it truly 
is incremental. And those are known projects we’re going to move forward with. And 
I would be happy to report, we probably have another thirty billion that aren’t far off 
of becoming real opportunities in that business. 
As Warren said, that it takes a lot of time. It’s a lot of work. The transmission 
projects, for example, we’re finishing in 2020, were initiated in 2008 when we 
bought Pacific Corp. I remember working on that transmission plan, putting it 
together, thinking, Six to eight years from now, we’ll have them in operation. Twelve 
years later and over that period of time we earned on that capital, we have invested, 
and then when it comes into service, we earn on the whole amount. So we’re very 
pleased with the opportunity, but we plant a lot of seeds, put it that way. 

Warren Buffett: Yeah. And these are not, it’s not like they’re a super high return 
thing, they’re decent returns over time. And we’re almost uniquely situated to deploy 
the capital as opposed -- you could have government entities do it, too, but in terms 
of the private enterprise -- and they take a long time, they earn decent returns. I’ve 
always said about the energy business, it’s not a way to get real rich, but it’s a way 
to stay real rich. And we will deploy a lot of money at decent returns, not super 
returns. You shouldn’t earn super returns on that sort of thing. I mean, you are 
getting rights to do certain things that governmental authorities are authorizing and 
that they should protect consumers, but they also should protect people that put up 
the capital. And, it’s worked now for 20 years and it’s got a long runway ahead. 
Becky Quick: All right, this next question comes from Jason in New Jersey. “As both 
a Berkshire and Occidental shareholder, I was encouraged to see your investment 
in the company, but with passing weeks, it became evident that your investment 
facilitated Occidental management’s ability to avoid a shareholder vote on the 
Anadarko acquisition, a very shareholder unfriendly outcome. This deal proved to 
be irresponsible and expensive from an Occi perspective and ultimately very value 
destructive for Occi shareholders. In my view, it also permanently hurt Berkshire’s 
reputation in the marketplace. Please comment on this unfortunate outcome and tell 
me why Occi shareholders and other market observers shouldn’t feel this way.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, we said right from the beginning, although we didn’t certainly 
expect the degree to what’s happened. We said essentially when you buy into a 
huge oil production company, how it works out is going to depend on the price of oil 
to a great extent. It’s not going to be your geological home runs or super mistakes 
or anything like that. It is an investment that depends on the price of oil and when oil 
goes to minus $37 as happened the other day for I guess it was the May contract, 
that’s off the chart. And if you own oil, you should only own oil if you expect these 
prices to go up significantly. I don’t know whether they’ll go up significantly or not. 
We’re in the transaction. Our commitment was made on a Sunday when the 
management of Anadarko favored Chevron and Chevron had a breakup fee of a 
billion dollars and Occidental people have been working on it for several years and 
it was attractive at oil prices that then prevailed. And it doesn’t work obviously at 
$20 a barrel. It certainly doesn’t work at minus $37 a barrel but it doesn’t work at 
$20 a barrel. And everything the oil companies have been doing, whether it’s Exxon 
or Occidental or anybody else, it doesn’t work at these oil prices. That’s why oil 
production is going to go down a lot in the next few years because it does not pay to 
drill. 
Now, that’s happened at other times in the past, but the situation is you don’t know 
where you’re going to store the incremental barrel of oil and oil demand is down 
dramatically, and for a while the Russians and the Saudis were trying to outdo each 
other in how much oil they could produce. And when you’ve got too much in 
storage, it doesn’t work its way off that very fast. Now you will have production of oil 
go down in the United States significantly. It does not pay to drill and all kinds of 
formations that paid before and it doesn’t pay to have paid the price that oil was 

trading at in the ground a year or two ago. And to that extent, if you’re an Occi 
shareholder or any shareholder in any oil producing company, you join me in having 
made a mistake so far in terms of where oil prices went and who knows where they 
go in the future. 
Becky Quick: Let me follow up with this one then. This one comes in from Anesh 
Ball who says, is there a risk of permanent loss of capital in the oil equity 
investments? 
Warren Buffett: Well, there certainly is. There’s no question. If oil stays at these 
prices, there’s going to be a lot of money, a whole lot of money and it will extend to 
bank loans and it’ll affect the banking industry to some degree. It doesn’t destroy 
them or anything, but there’s a lot of money that’s been invested that was not 
invested based on a $17 or $20 or $25 price for WTI, West Texas Intermediate oil. 
But you can do the same thing in copper. You can do the same thing in some of the 
things we manufacture. But with commodities it’s particularly dramatic and farmers 
have been getting lousy prices but to some extent the government subsidized them. 
I’m all for it actually. 
But if you’re an oil producer, you take your chances on future prices, unless you 
want to sell a lot of futures forward. Occi actually did sell 300,000 barrels a day, 
puts in effect, that they bought puts and sold cause and effect to match it. And they 
were protected for a layer of $10 a barrel on 300,000 barrels a day. But when you 
buy oil, you’re betting on oil prices over time and over a long time, and oil prices, 
there’s risk and the risk is being realized by oil producers as we speak. If these 
prices prevail, there will be a lot of bad loans and energy loans and bad debts and 
energy loans. And if there are bad debts and energy loans, you can imagine what 
happens to the equity holders. So yes, there’s a risk. 
Becky Quick: All right. This question comes from Bob Coleman. He says, Warren, 
could you bring us up to date with the status of your equity put contracts. Sourcing 
the 2019 annual report found on page 60, it appears at 2019 year the fair value 
liability was just under a billion dollars. And if the index declined 30%, the liability 
obligations balloon to $2.7 billion. So if the indexes are down 60%, would 
Berkshire’s obligation be close to five and a half billion dollars. Does that math 
seem reasonable? And are there any loose ends or open exposures associated? 
Warren Buffett: Between 2004 and 2006, I think we wrote 48, maybe 50 contracts, 
something like that. The shortest was 15 years, the longest was 20 years and we 
received, as I remember, roughly $4.8 billion, which we were free to do with what 
we wanted and we agreed to pay based on where one or more of four indices were 
selling for at the time of expiration. They were so-called European style puts where 
they’re only payable based on one date and we did not have, with a small 
exception, we did not have to put up collateral, which was part of the deal and we’ve 
had that 4.8 billion. 

We probably had an original nominal value of something over 30 billion, maybe 35 
billion, that’s if everything went to zero. I mean if the Dow Jones went to zero, the 
FTSE went to zero and the Nikkei and so on. A number of those are run off. So we 
now have about 14 billion nominal. We have something less than half left. We 
haven’t paid out anything significant. We bought back a few of them. If everything 
went to zero, we would owe 14 billion. If everything were to sell at the same price it 
was selling for on March 31st, I think it’s somewhat less than that we carry as a 
liability on the balance sheet, which is two and a fraction billion. So far so good. I 
mean, we’ve had the use of a lot of money and the outstanding potential of them is 
if the market went up a lot, we wouldn’t have to pay anything and if it goes down 
some more, we have to pay more than a couple of billion, but we’ve got the liability 
set up for that. But so far so good on that and it is not anything that causes us any 
problem. The final one I think comes due sometime in 2023. 
I think maybe 20 or 25% of them come due late this year. And so the questioner 
doesn’t really understand the bottom line, I can tell by the question, and there’s no 
surprises there. There’s no way that some liability could double up on us except 
relating to where those indices close at the expiration of a group of different puts, 
which like I said, have been more than cut in half and we’ve done very well on it. 
Key to that- 
Becky Quick: Warren, you mentioned a few minutes ago that you- 
Warren Buffett: Well I was just going to say key to that was with just a couple of tiny 
exceptions, we did not agree to put up collateral. We never would have gotten 
ourselves in that position, and that was when we made the deals, we just would not 
get ourselves in that position and we never will, where on a given date we could 
have some tremendous obligation that would come due that we weren’t counting on  
having come due. I’m done then, Becky. 
Becky Quick: Okay, thanks. So you mentioned a few minutes ago that you’re very 
concerned about Berkshire’s long-term health and this question came in from Drew 
Estos in Atlanta, Georgia who says there’s already a speculation of a post Buffet 
breakup of Berkshire and given the sway carried by modern activists, the 
speculation should be taken seriously. Many long-term owners see the folly in this 
view, a $25 billion ancillary earning stream provides a lot of flexibility when investing 
insurance float on our and your estate’s behalf, could you more forcefully make the 
case of maintaining Berkshire’s current architecture? If you don’t, that responsibility 
will fall on an unknown set of shoulders with far less credibility. 
Warren Buffett: Well, if you were to sell Berkshire’s various subsidiaries, you would 
incur a very significant amount of tax at the corporate level before anything was 
distributed to the shareholders. You can spin off a given one or something of the 
sort, but the ability to break up a diverse company without tax implications, there 
was something called the general utilities doctrine that prevailed in various ways up 
until 1986 and a lot of people seem to comment based on the fact that that didn’t 

happen in 1986. And there’s imaginative ways where people try to avoid taxes and 
can do it in some cases. On certain types of transactions. If you were to break up 
Berkshire, that would be one factor, but the interaction of being able to move capital 
around in terms of being able to do things in insurance that we couldn’t do unless 
there were the backup earnings and capital employed in the other entities. 
There’s enormous advantages in capital deployment within the place.  
So there is not a big discount to break up value embodied in Berkshire’s price and 
the situation actually is that although all my Berkshire shares, every share, will be 
given to charities pursuant to a plan I developed back 14 years ago and followed 
ever since and will continue following this July, I’ll be giving away 3 billion or so 
worth of the stock, but it still involves a big voting percentage, including other 
people that still remain in the picture aside even from the Buffet family, it isn’t going 
to happen. Now, I will tell you, everybody in the world will come around and propose 
something and say it’s wonderful for shareholders, and by the way, it involves huge 
fees. You do not get impartial advice from Wall Street when there’s enormous 
amount of fees possible for one action and no fees applicable from another action. 
But you can be sure I’ve thought about it and I would say that you can count on 
Berkshire’s present posture being continued for a long time. I can’t tell you what’s 
going to happen a hundred years from now and I can’t tell you exactly what would 
happen, for example, if certain ideas in terms of wealth taxes changed or taxes on 
foundations change. But my plan has been thought out and in place for a long time 
and it not only ensures that the money that’s been made at Berkshire, all of it ends 
up going to various philanthropies staggered over time, but it also will keep the 
wolves away. Greg, do you have any thoughts on that? 
Greg Abel: I think the comment on the capital allocation is critical that we have the 
ability to move the capital amongst the -- be it the operating businesses or up to the 
insurance or down with really no consequences to our shareholders. That’s the 
value driver of the unique structure of Berkshire and it creates immense value. So 
that’s all I would add or second, I guess. 
Becky Quick: All right, this question comes from Rob Grandish in Washington DC 
and he says, Interest rates are negative in much of Europe, also in Japan. Warren 
has written many times that the value of Berkshire’s insurance companies derives 
from the fact that policyholders pay upfront creating insurance float on which 
Berkshire gets to earn interest. If interest rates are negative, then collecting money 
upfront will be costly rather than profitable. If interest rates are negative, then the 
insurance float is no longer a benefit but a liability. Can you please discuss how 
Berkshire’s insurance companies would respond if interest rates became negative in 
the United States? 
Warren Buffett: Well, they were going to be negative for a long time. You better own 
equities or you better own something other than debt. It’s remarkable what’s 
happened in the last 10 years. I’ve been wrong in thinking that you could really have 
the developments you’ve had without inflation taking hold, but we have 120 odd 

billion, while we have a very high percentage in treasury bills and some just in cash, 
but those treasury bills are paying us virtually nothing now. They’re a terrible 
investment over time, but they are the one thing that when opportunity arises, it will 
arise at a time and it may be the only thing you can look to pay for those 
opportunities is the treasury bills you have. I mean, the rest of the world may have 
stopped, and we also need them to protect and be sure that we can pay the 
liabilities we have in terms of policyholders over time and we take that very 
seriously. 
So if the world turns into a world where you can issue more and more money and 
have negative interest rates over time, I’d have to see it to believe it, but I’ve seen a 
little bit of it. I’ve been surprised. So I’ve been wrong so far. I don’t see how you can 
create -- I would say this, if you’re going to have negative interest rates and pour 
out money and incur more and more debt relative to productive capacity, you’d think 
the world would have discovered it in the first couple thousand years rather than just 
coming on it now. But we will see. It’s probably the most interesting question I’ve 
ever seen in economics is, can you keep doing what we’re doing now, and we’ve 
been able to do it or the world’s been able to do it for now a dozen years or so, but 
we may be facing a period where we’re testing that hypothesis that you can 
continue it with a lot more force than we’ve tested it before. Greg, do you have any 
thoughts on that? I wish I knew the answer. Maybe you do. 
Greg Abel: No, I think as you articulated, I think it was in the annual report, too. I 
mean, we don’t know the answer, but as you said, some of the fundamentals right 
now are very interesting relative to having a negative interest rate. I hate to say it, 
but I don’t have anything to add. 
Warren Buffett: I’d love to be secretary of the treasury if I knew I could keep raising 
money at negative interest rates, that makes life pretty simple. We’re doing things 
that we really don’t know the ultimate outcome and I think in general are the right 
things, but I don’t think they’re without consequences and I think they could be kind 
of extreme consequences pushed far enough, but there would be kind of extreme 
consequences if we didn’t do it as well. So somebody else has to balance those 
questions. 
Becky Quick: All right. This question comes from Adam Schwartz in Miami, Florida 
and he says Berkshire is the largest holding in his partnership, which also houses 
most of their net worth. He says, Berkshire’s invested in many capital intensive 
businesses through the years, railroads as an example, how do you think about the 
inflationary or even deflationary risks for all of the capital intensive businesses and 
could this prove to be an existential problem for businesses? Kind of referencing 
what you were just talking about that eventually the bill for the debts being issued 
comes due, will it eventually come from all businesses through some combination of 
higher tax rates on corporations, increased wages for the lower middle class et 
cetera? 

Warren Buffett: Well, I certainly think that increased corporate taxes are a much 
higher probability than having lower corporate taxes. So I think that we got handed 
as a corporation a big chunk of what used to be the government’s profits from our 
business a couple of years ago. And it would depend on to some extent which party 
is elected and whether they have control of both houses as well as the presidency 
and who knows what else. But we could very easily have higher corporate income 
taxes and perhaps much higher corporate income taxes at some point. And in terms 
of capital-intensive businesses, they’re just not as good. If you can find an equally 
good business in terms of operations that doesn’t require capital. See’s never 
required capital, it didn’t take money to expand it and it just delivered enormous 
sums to us. And because we own it within Berkshire to redeploy it elsewhere didn’t 
require a lot of tax expense either at the corporate level or at the personal level. 
So you really want a business and everybody wants a business that doesn’t take 
any capital to speak of and keeps growing. It doesn’t take more capital as it grows. 
Now our utility business, the energy business requires more capital as it grows. Our 
railroad business to some extent requires more capital if it doesn’t grow even. So 
capital intensive businesses by their nature are not as good as something where 
people pay in bets and you don’t need the capital. If you look at where the top 
market value is in a $30 trillion market, if you take the top four or five companies 
that account for maybe four trillion or so of that 30 trillion, basically they don’t take 
much capital. And that’s why they’re worth a lot of money because they make a lot 
of money and they don’t require the money to any great extent in the business.  
We own some businesses like that, but it’s certainly not the railroad and it’s not the 
energy business. They are good businesses. We love them, but if they didn’t take 
any capital, they’d be unbelievable. That’s what we’ve learned from 50 or 60 years 
of operating businesses, that if you can find a great business that doesn’t require 
capital and it grows, you’ve really got something. And to a certain extent, because 
insurance uses the kind of assets we would like to own anyway, our insurance 
business doesn’t really take capital. It requires having capital available, but we’re 
able to invest that money largely in things we’d like to own anyway. So we’re 
particularly well suited for the insurance business and it’s really been the most 
important factor in our growth over the years, although a lot of other things 
contribute. Greg, you were in the capital-intensive business. Tell us about it. 
Greg Abel: Well, I think there’s no question obviously we would prefer to be in a less 
capital-intensive business, but there are unique opportunities there. The one I would 
touch on when I think of inflation or even potentially as we go through this crisis, 
and maybe a prolonged one, depending on how long it takes to recover. I mean, we 
are in a unique -- when we’re looking at energy or rail, we do have a certain amount 
of pricing power and it’s through our regulatory formulas or how our arrangements 
are with our customers. So if we then were to move into an inflationary period, it’s 
not perfect protection, but those businesses generally can recover a significant 
portion of their costs, even in an inflationary environment and still are in a 
reasonable return. They’re not going to be great returns as you highlighted, Warren, 

but they’re still going to earn a reasonable return on their capital even in an 
inflationary period. There may be some lag and some things like that, but they’re 
still going to be very sound investments. 
Warren Buffett: Oh yeah. If there was 10 for one inflation, make it extreme- 
Greg Abel: Yeah. 
Warren Buffett: We’d be happy we own the railroad, very happy. Well, we’d been 
investing a lot of capital in it, but that business is, in my view, is a very, very solid 
business for many, many, many, many decades to come. I said originally when we 
bought it with a hundred-year time horizon and I’ve extended that. So it will earn 
more dollars if there’s a lot of inflation. In real terms, who knows, but it would earn a 
lot more dollars and a lot of the energy projects would, but it’s better if we don’t 
have inflation and it’s better if we can find the same sort of businesses that aren’t as 
capital intensive -- we’ve got capital. I mean, we’re ideally positioned for capital 
intensive businesses that other people will have trouble raising capital for, but 
they’ve still got to promise decent returns. 
Becky Quick: All right. This question comes from Charlie Wang, he’s a shareholder 
in San Francisco. He says, Given the unprecedented time of the economy and the 
debt level, could there be any risks and consequences of the US government 
defaulting on its bonds? 
Warren Buffett: No. If you print bonds in your own currency, what happens to the 
currency is it can be a question because you don’t default. And the United States 
has been smart enough and people have trusted us enough to issue its debt in its 
own currency and Argentina is now having a problem because the debt isn’t in their 
own currency and lots of countries have had that problem and lots of countries will 
have that problem in the future. It is very painful to owe money in somebody else’s 
currency, but listen, if I could issue a currency in Buffett bucks and I had a printing 
press and I could borrow money on that, I would never default. So what you end up 
getting in terms of purchasing power can be in doubt, but in terms of the US 
government, when Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States government, 
I think it was Standard and Poor’s some years back, that to me did not make sense. 
In the end how you can regard any corporation as stronger than a person who can 
print the money to pay you, I just don’t understand. So don’t worry about the 
government defaulting. I think it’s kind of crazy incidentally, this should be said, to 
have these limits on the debt and all of that sort of thing and then stop the 
government arguing about whether it’s going to increase the limits. We’re going to 
increase the limits on the debt. The debt isn’t going to be paid. It’s going to be 
refunded and anybody that thinks they’re going to bring down the national debt -- I 
mean, there’s been brief periods and I think it was the late nineties or thereabouts, 
when the debt has gone down a little bit - the country’s going to print more, but the 

country is going to grow in terms of its debt paying capacity but the trick is to keep 
borrowing in your own currency. 
Becky Quick: Emphasis on the trick. This question comes from David Cass. He is a 
clinical professor of finance at the University of Maryland and he says, Berkshire 
has invested in many companies with stock buyback programs. Recently there’s 
been a backlash against buybacks. What are your views on this subject? 
Warren Buffett: Well, it’s very politically correct to be against buybacks now and 
there’s a lot of crazy things said on buybacks. Buybacks are so simple. I mean, it’s 
a way of distributing cash to shareholders. And let’s just say that you and I and 
Greg, the three of us decided to buy an auto dealership or a McDonald’s franchise 
or something and we each put a million dollars in or whatever the number may be, 
and we get along with each other and the business grows and all of that and one of 
us really wants to spend our share of the earnings and the other two want to leave 
the money in the business to grow. Now if the three of us did that and we’re the only 
shareholders, we would not establish a 100% dividend payout for everybody and we 
wouldn’t freeze the one that wanted to get out either. 
The logical thing to do is to buy a portion, whatever that person wants to spend 
annually from the earnings, buy a portion of their stock and the other two find their 
interest in the company goes up and the third person still has a little more of an 
interest by what they leave in but they also can take some money out of the 
business. You’re taking money out of the business in either case and one you call 
dividends and you send it to everybody whether they want it or not. And with 
buybacks, you’d give it to the ones who want the money. And I have been following 
a policy of giving away stock now since 2006 and I’ll give away a lot of stock. But 
the philanthropies that receive it, they just have to spend the money very promptly, 
on a current basis more or less. So they are getting $3 billion worth of stock or 
whatever it may be. And I’m in effect reducing my interest in Berkshire, but 
Berkshire is still retaining more capital than I’m giving away. So I have more dollars 
invested, but my interest goes down and the people that need the cash to carry out 
the philanthropic efforts, they cash out the stock. And I don’t force my sister or 
whoever it may be to take a bunch of money she doesn’t want.  She wants it 
reinvested, all of it reinvested in the business. And people that don’t want to can sell 
some of their stock and the company ends up in the same position. We’ve 
distributed some of the capital that we don’t need for growth. Now, whether the 
company should buy it depends on a couple of things.  
One is they ought to retain the money they need for intelligent growth prospects and 
that’s fine. And, secondly, and this is a point that’s never mentioned, they should be 
buying it back below what they think it’s worth. Now they’ll make mistakes in that, 
but you make mistakes in a lot of businesses isn’t. But over that should be the 
guiding principle. And to my knowledge, JP Morgan, Jamie Diamond said it once, 
and we’ve said at various times, we will repurchase shares when it’s to the 
advantage of the continuing shareholder to have us do so. But you read about all 

these buyback programs that we’re going to spend 5 billion buying it back or 10 
billion. Well, that’s like saying I’m going to go out and buy some business this year 
for 5 billion without knowing what you’re going to get for the money. It should be 
price sensitive. Obviously, it should be needs sensitive obviously, but when the 
conditions are right, it should also be obvious to repurchase shares and there 
shouldn’t be the slightest taint to it anymore than there is to dividends.  And people 
that have now sort of taken up the cries about how terrible it was that companies 
bought back stock – well, they didn’t say it was terrible for them to pay dividends  
and they’d have more money now, but they were doing what was intelligent at the 
time and I hope they continue to do what is intelligent as they go forth. Greg? 
Greg Abel: No, the only thing I know you’ve commented on in the past, Warren, is 
that I think the one thing we are seeing, and obviously we’re supportive of 
buybacks, but there are companies that used probably their financial engineering 
was just a little- 
Warren Buffett: Extreme. 
Greg Abel: Extreme and too cute that effectively you’re using every ounce of your 
balance sheet to buy back stock at a time where you’re really creating no cushion 
for your business for any type of event or bump in the road. And we’re going to see 
that. And I think that’s a very unfortunate outcome of them and hence you get some 
of the backlash, but there are still companies, as you highlighted, many that do it 
right. 
Warren Buffett: No, if they’re buying it back because it’s fashionable -- because they 
really do like the idea, there’s nothing wrong with taking an action that increases the 
value of the remaining shares. But if they’re doing it -- and incidentally I’ve been 
witness to some programs where it really is stupid, but I don’t think it’s immoral. I 
just think it’s stupid basically. And, on the other hand, we favor companies that take 
care of all our requirements for growth, and as Greg says, maintain sound balance 
sheets and all of that, leave a margin of error for things that you can get surprised 
with, and if they find their stocks selling below what the business is intrinsically 
worth, I think that they’re making a big mistake if they don’t buy in their stock. And 
it’s got to be a political football. And like I say that when it becomes politically 
correct to do something in this country, if you’re a politician, the best thing to do is 
get on board. But Berkshire is going to do what it thinks makes sense for a 
shareholder. And we like investing in companies that think that way, too, and not all 
companies obviously do. 
Becky Quick: All right. Here’s a question from Lou in Boca Raton, Florida. He says, 
I’m a longtime shareholder with a concern as I head into retirement. I understand 
the theory that splitting shares does nothing for the value of shares. However, with 
the extremely high price on A shares, when I wish to drown down some money on 
my portfolio in retirement, I’m facing a large tax. Say the average price has been 
about $300,000 this year. And I’m sitting on a $200,000 capital gains liability for 

each share. If I need $60,000 in additional cash during my retirement, I need to sell 
a full share and get hit with a $200,000 tax liability. If you would split the stock 10 
for one, I could sell two $30,000 shares and keep my tax liability at a more 
manageable $40,000. I could also maintain more of my investment in Berkshire. He 
said, have you thought about this? In retrospect, I should have bought B shares but 
didn’t think about it at the time.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, you can convert A to B shares, which is exactly what takes 
place when I give away the money in July to the five foundations. I actually convert 
it immediately before the gift. So they get B shares, and the truth is the B shares are 
very useful to people that want to either give away a small portion of what they 
have, or spend it or whatever it may be. So you can convert the A to B shares, 
which is exactly what I’ve been doing now for 14 years as I give it away, and solve 
that problem. We split the B shares, as I remember it, at one point, just to make it 
even more manageable so that people could deal with smaller denominations. 
The A shares have a different voting power. But we passed some resolution 
sometime ago, I think, and certainly would be the case. In any event, we’re never 
going to give the A shares an advantage over the B. They used to have an 
advantage in a shareholder designated contribution program that we had, and we 
put that in there when we started. But that goes way back in time, and that doesn’t 
exist anymore. So that the B and the A are going to get treated exactly the same 
over time. It’s true, the A have more votes, and they sell very close to parity all the 
time. So I would say that if you want to do anything in terms of raising cash and 
you’ve got a lot of A shares, take one or two shares of A, and plenty of people I 
know have done this, and just cash it in and turn it into B and give yourself whatever 
amount of cash you want to get. 
Becky Quick: This is one that comes from Thomas Lin in Taiwan. He says, “Warren 
once said that banking is a good business if you don’t do dumb things on the asset 
side. Given that the pandemic might put a lot of pressure on the loans, dumb things 
that got done in the past few years are likely to explode. Through reading annual 
reports, 10Qs and other public information, what clues are you looking for to decide 
whether a bank is run by a true banker who avoids doing dumb things?” 
Warren Buffett: That’s a very good question, but I would say that the one thing that 
made Chairman Powell’s job a little easier this time than it was in 2008-09 is that 
the banks are in far better shape. So in terms of thinking about what was good for 
the economy, he wasn’t at the same time worrying about what he was going to do 
with bank A or bank B, to merge them with somebody or add strains to the system 
or anything. The banks were very involved with a problem in 2008 and ’09. They 
had done some things they shouldn’t have done, some of them, and they were 
certainly in a far different financial condition than now. So that the banking system is 
not the problem in this particular show. I mean, we decided as a people to shut 
down part of the economy in a big way, and it was not the fault of anyone that it 

happened. Things do happen in this world. Earthquakes happen. Huge hurricanes 
happen. This was something different. 
But the banks need regulation. I mean, they benefit from the FDIC, but part of 
having the government standing behind your deposits is to behave well. I think that 
the banks have behaved very well, and I think they’re in very good shape. I mean, 
that’s why the FDIC has built up a hundred billion dollars that I’ve talked about. I 
mean, they’ve assessed the banks in recent years at accelerated amounts in certain 
periods, and they even differentiated against the big banks. So they built up great 
reserves there. Then they built their own balance sheets and they are not presently 
part of Chairman Powell’s problem whereas they were very much part of Chairman 
Bernanke’s problem back in 2008 and ’09. 
How you spot the people that are doing the dumb things is not easy because -- well, 
sometimes it’s easy, but I don’t see a lot that bothers me, but banks are, in the end, 
institutions that operate with significant amounts of other people’s money, and if 
problems become severe enough in an economy, even strong banks can be under a 
lot of stress, and we’ll be very glad we’ve got the federal reserve system standing 
behind them. I don’t see special problems in the banking industry now. I could think 
of possibilities, and Jamie Diamond referred to this a little bit in the JP Morgan 
report. You can dream of scenarios that puts a lot of strain on banks, and they’re 
not totally impossible, and that’s why we have the Fed. I think overall the banking 
system is not going to be the problem. I wouldn’t say that with a 100% certainty 
because there are certain possibilities that exist in this world where banks could 
have problems. They’re going to have problems with energy loans. They’re going to 
have problems. They’re going to have extra problems with consumer credit. They’re 
going to have that. But they know it, and they’re well reserved -- well, they’re well 
capitalized for it. They were reserve building in the first quarter, and they may need 
to build more reserves. But they are not a primary worry of mine at all. We own a lot 
of banks or we own a lot of bank stocks. 
Greg, do you have any thoughts on it? 
Greg Abel: You touched on it earlier, too, just in general, which is we don’t know 
how long this pandemic will go. We don’t know if there’s going to be a second event, 
which are just risks that are really unknown at this time, and the banks will have to 
continue to manage that as the businesses do, but you’ve already highlighted that 
obviously. 
Warren Buffett: Becky. 
Becky Quick: All right, this question, I was looking for one of these, because I got 
several questions that came in similar to this. I was looking for one of these a 
moment ago. This one’s from Andrew says, “Can you ask Warren why he didn’t 
repurchase Berkshire shares in March when they dropped to a price that was 30% 
lower than the price that he had repurchased shares for in January and February?” 

Warren Buffett: Yeah, it was a very, very, very short period where they were 30% 
less. But I don’t think Berkshire shares relative to present value are at a significantly 
different discount than they were when we were paying somewhat higher prices. I 
mean, it’s like Cain said, or whoever it was, I don’t know. If the facts change, I 
change my mind. What do you do, sir? We always think about it, but I don’t feel that 
it’s far more compelling to buy Berkshire shares now than I would’ve felt three 
months or six months or nine months ago. It’s always a possibility. We’ll see what 
happens. Greg, you think about repurchasing shares generally? 
Greg Abel: No, I think your approach, Warren, is the right approach. I can’t really 
add anything other than your approach is the right approach. We approach it when 
we see it’s the right thing for our shareholders to be repurchasing. That doesn’t 
mean we’re repurchasing all the time or the view doesn’t change. 
Warren Buffett: There could be a price relative to value at the time, not relative as to 
what it was worth a year ago. I mean, the value of certain things have decreased. 
Our airline position was a mistake. Berkshire is worth less today because I took that 
position than if I hadn’t. There are other decisions like that, and it is not more 
compelling to buy the shares now than it was when we were buying them. It’s not 
less compelling. I mean, it’s a wash. But the price has not gotten to a level -- or not 
been at a level where it really feels way better to us than other things, including the 
option value of money to stock up in a big, big way. 
Becky Quick: This question comes from three investors in Israel They want to know 
about the credit card industry. It says, how do you explain the rise in the average 
credit card interest rate in recent years compared to the federal fund’s rate? What 
are the forces that you think might keep it at or around current levels and what are 
the forces that might drive it lower in the future? 
Warren Buffett: Well, that is not a subject that I’m – obviously, it affects American 
Express to some degree and it affects the banks we own, but interest rates on credit 
cards respond to competition, obviously, to loss potential, which obviously has gone 
up significantly in the last few months, although it’s gone down perhaps from some 
other periods you can pick in the past. I don’t really have much I can bring to the 
party on that question. We are not – well, that isn’t true. Our furniture companies, a 
couple of them, have their own credit card or they do a lot of business on other 
people’s credit cards. 
My general advice to people, I mean, we have an interest in credit cards. But I think 
people should avoid using credit cards as a piggy bank to be raided. I had a woman 
come to see me here not long ago, and she’d come on some money, not very much, 
but it was a lot to her. She’s a friend of mine, and she said, What should I do with it? 
I said, Well, what do you owe on your credit card? She says, Well, I owe X. I said, 
Well, what you should do -- I don’t know what interest rate she was paying, but I 
think I asked her and she knew, it was something like 18% or something. I said, I 
don’t know how to make 18%. I mean, if I owed any money at 18%, the first thing I’d 

do with any money I had would be to pay it off. It’s going to be way better than any 
investment idea I’ve got. That wasn’t what she wanted to hear.  
Then later on in the conversation, she talked about her daughter and her daughter 
had $1,000 or $2,000 or something. She said, Well, what should I do with, she 
named the girl, her money? I said, Have her lend it to you. I mean, if you’re willing 
to pay 18% or whatever, I mean, she’s not going to find a better deal. I’ll lend you 
money. 
It just doesn’t make sense. You can’t go through life borrowing money at those rates 
and be better off. So I encourage everybody, it’s contrary to Berkshire’s interests in 
certain cases, and the world is in love with credit cards. But I would suggest to 
anybody that the first thing they do in life is, they can get to something else later on, 
but don’t be paying even 12% to anybody. I mean, it’s pay that off, and if they’re 
really a good credit, and they don’t want to do it, come and see me personally, I’ll 
lend you the money at that rate. Greg, what do you tell your children? 
Greg Abel: Same advice. Excellent advice. No, I have three that carefully use their 
credit card. Obviously, people use it a lot more as they go into the digital world and 
the e-commerce world, but then the goal has to be to repay it. It doesn’t mean 
because you have to use it for those types of transactions, you run up the balance. 
But there’s an incremental risk there now.  
Warren Buffett: It’s a matter of convenience for some people. 
Greg Abel: Yeah. 
Warren Buffett: But I would have trouble, if I were paying 12% for money or 
whatever it might be, it would not be a good thing. You won’t see Berkshire paying 
that.  
Becky Quick: Warren, this question is from Lindsay Schumacher.  
Warren Buffett: Well, we probably ought to wind this up maybe in 15 minutes. Can 
you select the best ones? 
Becky Quick: Okay. Absolutely. I’ve got a couple more questions for you. This one’s 
from Lindsey Schumacher. She says, Warren, what’s your opinion regarding the 
Payroll Protection Plan?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I don’t want to get into politics generally, but I think that’s a 
very good idea to take care of the people that are having terrible troubles taking 
care of themselves in a period like this. I mean, if the government and surrounding 
conditions and whatever it may be, if you’re telling a lot of businesses essentially, 
quit doing business for a long time, and it’s one thing to tell me, but to tell somebody 
that’s living from paycheck to paycheck that way -- I’m all for it. It must be hell to 

administer. I mean, any huge program, I’ll never get into criticizing on how people 
do this or that because I’ve had problems myself in running a few big things. It just 
isn’t that easy to inaugurate incredibly large programs. 
There’s going to be a certain amount of fraud. Everything doesn’t go perfectly, but I 
am a 100% for taking care of the people that really get hurt by something that 
they’ve got nothing to do with. Who knows how long it lasts. You’ve got millions and 
millions of people that are worrying about something that they weren’t worried about 
a few months ago, and they didn’t do anything. They showed up for work on time 
and they pleased the people they dealt with, whatever it may have been. Now they 
don’t have a job, or they’ve been furloughed or whatever. 
So, I’m totally for the basic idea, and I think it’s very difficult. We can’t carry it out 
perfectly. You do your best, and you do it promptly. I give real credit to both 
Congress for acting promptly on what the problem is. They’ve sort of caught on from 
what they learned in 2008 and ’09 I think, and I give credit to trying to do what I 
think is very much the right thing. I don’t sit around and think about how I could do it 
better. Greg? 
Greg Abel: I agree with the comments. 
Becky Quick: Warren, this question comes from Bill Murray, the actor, who’s also a 
shareholder in Berkshire. He says, this pandemic will graduate a new class of war 
veterans, healthcare, food supply, deliveries, community services. So many owe so 
much to these few. How might this great country take our turn and care for all of 
them? 
Warren Buffett: Well, we won’t be able to pay, actually. It’s like people that landed at 
Normandy or something. I mean, the poor, the disadvantaged, they suffer. There’s 
an unimaginable suffering. At the same time they’re doing all these things, they’re 
working 24 hour days, and we don’t even know their names. So if we go overboard 
on something, we ought to do things that are going to help those people. This 
country, I’ve said it a lot of times before, but the history of it, I mean, we are a rich, 
rich, rich country, and the people that are doing the kind of work that Bill talks about, 
they’re contributing a whole lot more than some of the people that came out of the 
right womb, or got lucky and things, or know how to arbitrage bonds or whatever it 
may be. In a large part, I’m one of those guys. 
So you really try to create a society that under normal conditions, with more than 
$60,000 of GDP per capita, that anybody that worked 40 hours a week can have a 
decent life, without a second job and with a couple of kids. They can’t live like kings. 
I don’t mean that. But nobody should be left behind. It’s like a rich family. You find 
rich families, and if they have five heirs or six heirs, they try and pick maybe the 
most able one to run the business. But they don’t forget about -- actually, maybe a 
better citizen in some ways even than the one that does the best at business, but  
just doesn’t happen to have market value skills. So I do not think that a very rich 

company ought to totally abide by what the market dishes out in 18th century style 
or something of the sort. 
I welcome ideas that go in that direction. We’ve gone in that direction. We did come 
up with social security in the ‘30s. We’ve made some progress, but we ought to. I 
mean, we have become very, very, very rich as a country, and things have improved 
for the bottom 20%. I mean, you can see various statistics on that. But I’d rather be 
in the bottom 20% now than be in the bottom 20% 100 years ago or 50 years ago. 
But what’s really improved, the top 1%, and I hope we as a country move in a 
direction where people Bill was talking about get treated better, and it isn’t going to 
hurt  -- it isn’t going to hurt the country’s growth, and it’s overdue. But a lot of things 
are overdue. I will still say we’re a better society than we were 100 years ago, but 
you would think with our prosperity, we would hold ourselves to even higher 
standards of taking care of our fellow man, particularly when you see a situation like 
you’ve got today where it’s the people whose names you don’t know that are 
watching the people come in and watching the bodies go out. Greg? 
Greg Abel: Yeah. The only other group that I would highlight, and I think it’ll be very 
interesting to see how it plays out is with the number of home schooling and the 
children that are home, we’ve always had so much respect for teachers, but we all 
talk about how we don’t take care of them. It is remarkable to hear how many 
people comment that clearly we don’t recognize -- or I have a little eight year old 
Beckett at home and plenty of challenges for mom, but all of a sudden, you respect 
the institution, the school, the teachers and everything around it. 
Then when I think of our companies and the delivery employees we have, it’s 
absolutely amazing what they’re doing, and they’re truly on the front line. That’s 
where we have our challenges around keeping them healthy and safety. Then you 
go all the way to the rail. The best videos you see out of our companies are when 
we have folks that are actively engaged in moving supplies, food, medical products, 
and they’re so proud of it, and they recognize they’re making a difference. So a lot 
of it is we just owe them a great thanks. Warren, you touched on it. We can in some 
way, maybe hopefully, longer term compensate them, but there’s a great deal of 
thanks, and I probably just think an immense amount of new appreciation for a 
variety of folks. 
Warren Buffett: We’re going in the right direction all around the country, but it’s 
been awfully slow. 
Greg Abel: Yeah. 
Becky Quick: Gentlemen, I’ll make this the last question. It comes from Phil King. 
He says, “Many people in the press and politics are questioning the validity of 
capitalism. What can you say to them that might prompt them to take a look at 
capitalism more favorably?” 

Warren Buffett: Well, the market system works wonders, and it’s also brutal if left 
entirely to itself. We wouldn’t be the country we are if the market system hadn’t 
been allowed to function. To some extent you can say that other countries around 
the world that have improved their way of life dramatically to some extent have 
copied us. So the market system is marvelous in many respects. But it needs 
government, and it is creative destruction. But for the ones who are destroyed, it 
can be a very brutal game, and for the people who work in the industries and all of 
that sort of thing. So I do not want to come up with anything different than 
capitalism, but I certainly do not want unfettered capitalism. I don’t think we’ll move 
away from it, but I think we capitalists, I’m one of them, I think there’s a lot of 
thought that should be given to what would happen if we all drew straws again for 
particular market-based skills. 
Somewhere way back, somebody invented television, I don’t know what it was. 
Then they embedded cable, then they invented pay systems and all of that. So a 
fellow that could the bat .406 in 1941 was worth $20,000 a year and now a marginal 
big leaguer makes greater sums because in effect, the stadium size was increased 
from 30 or 40 or 50,000 people to the country -- and the market system, capitalism 
took over. It’s very uneven and it’s only, I think Ted Williams is worth a lot more 
money than I ever should make. 
But the market system can work toward a winner takes all type situation, and we 
don’t want to discourage people from working hard and thinking hard. But that alone 
doesn’t do it. There is a lot of randomness in the capitalist system, including 
inherited wealth. I think we can keep the best parts of our market system and 
capitalism, and we can do a better job of making sure that everybody participates in 
the prosperity that that produces. Greg? 
Greg Abel: Yeah, I think it’s always keeping the best parts of it. I even think if we 
look at the current environment we’re in, i.e., in the pandemic and we have to do it 
only when we can do it properly and re-emerge, but in some ways the best 
opportunity for people is when we’re back working clearly, and that the system’s 
functioning again. But that’s the obvious. Then there’s, Warren, you’ve highlighted, 
there’s a lot of imperfections, but it’s definitely the best model out there that just 
needs some fine tuning. 
Warren Buffett: Becky. 
Becky Quick: Can I just slip in one more quick question? I forgot this one. Someone 
sent it in earlier. Thanks. Anderson wrote in, he said, “Warren mentioned that Ben 
Graham is one of the three smartest people he’s ever met. I’d like to ask him the 
names of the other two.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I may not be one of the smartest, but I’m smart enough not to 
name the other two. I’d make two people happy. Ben Graham is one of the three 
smartest people. I’ve known some really smart people. Smartness does not 

necessarily equate to wisdom either. Ben Graham, one of the things he said he 
liked to do every day was he wanted to do something creative, something generous, 
and something foolish. He said he was pretty good at the latter. But he was pretty 
good -- he was amazing, actually, at the creative. But it’s interesting that IQ does 
not always translate into rationality and behavioral success or wisdom. So I know 
some people that are extraordinarily wise that would not be in the top three on an IQ 
test. But if I wanted their judgment on some matter, even if I wanted to put them in a 
position of responsibility someplace, I might prefer them to we’ll say one of the three 
-- that’ll leave the other two feeling fine of the three. Greg, do you have any 
thoughts on that? 
Greg Abel: Nope, I agree with the person you named. 
Warren Buffett: Becky, I would just say again that I hope we don’t, but we may get 
some unpleasant surprises. We’re dealing with a virus that spreads its wings in a 
certain way, in very unpredictable ways, and how Americans react to it, there’s all 
kinds of possibilities. But I’ve definitely come to the conclusion after weighing all 
that sort of stuff -- Never bet against America. So, thanks. 
Greg Abel: Yep. 
Becky Quick: Thank you. I appreciate your time tonight. 
Warren Buffett: We’ll see you next year, and we’ll fill this place. Okay.