2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY 2021 ANNUAL MEETING NOTES 
BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
INTRODUCTION 
Warren Buffett: Good morning.  It’s 10:30 here in Los Angeles.  We are going to hold our 
second virtual annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway. We did it in Omaha last year on 
short notice. We had more warning this time, and so we came to Los Angeles and the 
reason we’re doing it from here is because of the man on my left, not because he asked for 
it, but because all of us wanted to do it with Charlie and here in Los Angeles. So I’ll 
introduce the three vice chairmen of Berkshire in a minute. I’ll show you the first quarter 
earnings. We won’t take much time on that. I’ll have one or two very short lessons for 
perhaps the new investors who were not necessarily in Berkshire Hathaway, but people 
who have entered the stock market in the last year. And I think there’ve been a record 
number that have entered the stock market. I’ll have a couple of little examples for them. 
And then we’ll swing into a Q&A led by Becky Quick, who looked at thousands of questions 
that have been submitted to her, but more can be submitted during this meeting. And we 
will put up a camera from time to time. That way you can communicate directly with her if 
you want to send questions in during the meeting. And she got flooded with them last time 
and she miraculously keeps sorting them out. And so feel free to send in a question. And 
we will have a question period for about three and a half hours, and then we will finally 
have the annual meeting, which won’t take long at the end.  
And so with that, I would like to first introduce the three vice chairmen of Berkshire 
Hathaway. I’ll tell you just a little bit about them and then I’ll have a mild surprise for you at 
the end, perhaps. On my left is Charlie Munger, and I met Charlie 62 years ago. He was 
practicing law in Los Angeles. He was building a house at that time, a few miles from here, 
and 62 years later, he’s still living in the same house. Now that’s kind of interesting 
because I was buying a house just a few months before, 62 years ago, and I’m still living in 
the same house. So you’ve got a couple of fairly peculiar guys, just to start with, in terms of 
their love affair with their homes. And Charlie and I hit it off immediately. And I would say 
he’s probably the vice chairman in charge of culture among other things. But if I ever want 
to get questions about where true north is, I talk to Charlie, and he has been an enormous 
help. He’s done it with a lot fewer hours and a lot less talking and everything than I have, 
but he’s contributed in an incredible way to Berkshire. So Charlie has been out here in Los 
Angeles for 60 plus years.  
On my right, your left, I have the vice chairman in charge of everything except insurance 
and investments, Greg Abel. Greg was born and raised in Edmonton, Alberta. He’s 
Canadian, plays hockey, his eight-year-old plays hockey. And he came to the United States 
sometime after he graduated from college in Canada. And he is in charge of a business 
which has well over 150 billion in sales and employs more than 250,000, probably 275,000 
people. And he does a much better job at doing that than I was doing previously. 
And on my far left, your right, we have Ajit Jain. And Ajit was born and raised in India and 
graduated from college there. And I met Ajit on a Saturday in 1986, and I’d been in the 
insurance business, Berkshire had been in the insurance business for quite a while. And I 
was stumbling around in various ways. And Ajit came to the office on Saturday. I was 
opening the mail and I said, “How much do you know about insurance?” And he said, 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
“Nothing.” And I said, “Well, nobody’s perfect. Let’s talk about it some,” and by the end of 
the morning, I knew I had somebody that was going to build a great insurance business. 
And starting from that point this improbable little company in Omaha became the largest 
property casualty company in the world in terms of net worth. It writes risks occasionally in 
a 24-hour period that other companies simply couldn’t take on themselves, they’d have to 
assemble other people and it would take them a long time to come to a decision and that 
was very important at various times in the past. It’s not so important now. But he’s built an 
incredible, the world’s leading property casualty insurance company.  
So here we have Charlie from LA, 60 some years. We’ve got Greg from Canada, we’ve got 
Ajit from India. And the one thing in common that these three fellows have, aside from 
working for Berkshire and doing a sensational job, the one thing in common is that at one 
time or another, for some extended period, they lived within a mile of me in Omaha, 
Nebraska. And Charlie in 1934, moved about a hundred yards away from where I now live 
and went through high school, eventually went into the service and knows the 
neighborhood as well as I do, went to the same grade school my kids went to, and so on. 
Greg spent a significant time living in Omaha, lived about five or six blocks from me and 
now lives in Des Moines. And Ajit was in Omaha about a mile away for a couple of years. 
So we started in very different places and sort of came together. And now we go our 
separate ways, but it’s all worked very well. And you’ll hear from them during this meeting, 
and I urge you to send questions, you can direct them to me or you can direct them to any 
one of the other three, and it will be a big relief to me if you direct a fair number to the other 
people.  
FIRST QUARTER RESULTS 
So we this morning, as we always do, we always do it on a Saturday, we published our 10-
Q, which gave the quarterly earnings. It’s up on our website, berkshirehathaway.com. And 
it’s very interesting. We put these out on a Saturday morning. That’s not because the media 
likes us to do it that way. It’s not because the analysts like to do it that way, but we want to 
give you the maximum time to digest an awful lot of information that’s in that 10-Q. 
It can’t be summarized in a perfect way. We’ll give you some summary figures, but if you’re 
really a student of the place, and most of our investors buy because they simply have faith 
in these other three fellows to do a good job. And it’s not a misplaced faith. But if you really 
enjoy going into the details and you want to understand the nuts and bolts of Berkshire 
Hathaway’s various operations, you should read that 10-Q and it’ll take you, it may take 
you a couple of hours. I mean, it’s not a small investment of time, but it’s got a lot of 
information about all our various businesses. And for those of you who are business 
students of a sort, I recommend you go to it.  
The summary figures you see here, which are the ones we put in our press release, show 
an interesting pair of numbers I made down there at the bottom. We have last year, when 
you see those brackets around numbers, you’ve got to know you’ve got to start worrying. 
And the first quarter we actually showed a loss of almost $50 billion. 
I never thought I’d ever see a figure like that. And I was thinking back, I was trying to 
remember whether I had gone on vacation during that quarter and turned things over to the 
other guys or what, but I checked the calendar and that was me. And that figure this year is 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
a positive figure of $11.7 billion and neither figure is very meaningful in itself. The 
accounting standards board a few years ago for many, many, many, many years unrealized 
gains or losses of a company like Berkshire made adjustments to the net worth of 
Berkshire, but they did not run through earnings. And a few years ago, the rule was 
changed so that every time one of the stocks go up or down, it goes through our earnings 
account. So on the first quarter of last year, when stocks went down a lot, we had a huge 
sum of unrealized –well, it was a reduction of unrealized gains, largely. And when you start 
saying things like that, you start losing people.  But if we reported earnings daily, you would 
see earnings one day of 3 billion, next day minus 2 billion. And it’s an accounting treatment 
that we don’t think is particularly appropriate, but it’s required. And we’ve explained very 
carefully, both in our press releases, or we try to explain, and I tried to write in my letter 
and explain why I don’t think that’s the way to look at Berkshire. We think over time that we 
will have investment gains for reasons I lay out in my letter over a period of time, the 
companies we own stock in retain earnings and they use those reinvested earnings usually 
to our benefit. And that shows up in capital gains some day. But reported earnings for a 
company that has a lot of common stocks, marketable stocks like ours, you don’t want to 
look at that final line and you do want to look at the operating earnings line. 
Now, I would say that if you would take the first two months of last year and compare it to 
the first two months of this year, those figures would have been quite comparable. But of 
course, in March 2020, the economy was shut down. And the effect, I mean, it was a self-
induced recession and an abrupt one. Very abrupt. And so the economy went off a cliff in 
March and it was resurrected in an extraordinarily effective way by federal reserve 
action and later on the fiscal front by Congress, and we’ll get into that later. But the 
figure you see, the difference was March, basically, and our businesses have done -- we’ll 
get into more specifics later, but our businesses have done really quite well. This has 
been a very, very, very unusual recession in that it’s been localized as to the industry 
to an extraordinary extent and right now business is really very good in a great many 
segments of the economy, which we’ll talk about later. But there’s still problems if you’re 
in the few types of businesses that have really been decimated, such as international air 
travel or something of the sort. So with that, we’ll go back to the figures later on, perhaps in 
some of the questions.  
STOCK MARKET VALUATIONS 
I would like to just go over two items that I would like particularly new entrants to the stock 
market to ponder just a bit before they try and do 30 or 40 trades a day in order to profit 
from what looks like a very easy game. So I would like to go to slide L1. So put that up. And 
these on March 31st, I ran off a list of the 20 largest companies in the world by stock 
market value and those names, a good many of which will be familiar to you, but they were 
led by Apple that’s slightly over $2 trillion and went down to the number 20 was worth $330 
odd billion, but those were the 20 largest companies in the world by market value on March 
31st.  
Now, if I had a little, I was hoping I could get a little quiz machine, so I could have 
everybody weigh in on this answer, and we could flash it up a little later, but both 
technically impossible, but what I would like you to do is look at that list. It starts off with 
Apple. Saudi Aramco is a pretty specialized company. I don’t know whether it’s 95% owned 
by the government or what, but it’s essentially a country that’s for sale in terms of that 
business. But of the top six companies, five of them are American. So when you hear 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
people say that America hasn’t done -- it’s not working very well or something of the sort, in 
the whole world of the six top companies in value, five of them are in the United States. 
And if you think about it, we talked a little about this last year, but in 1790, we had one half 
of 1% of the world’s population. A little less, we had 4 million people, 3.9 million people, 
600,000 of them were slaves. Ireland had more people than the United States had. Russia 
had five times as many people as the US. Ukraine had twice as many people as the United 
States. So here we were, but what do we have? We had a map for the future, an 
aspirational map, that somehow now only 200 and well, after the constitution, 232 years 
later leaves us with five of the top six companies in the world. It’s not an accident. And it’s 
not because we were way smarter, way stronger, or anything of the sort. We had good soil, 
we had decent climate. But so did some of those other countries I named. And the system 
has worked unbelievably well. Just imagine thinking of five of the top six companies in the 
world, ending up with a country that started with a half of 1% of the population just a few 
hundred years ago. 
But what I would like you to do is look at that list for a minute or two, if you want to, and 
then make an estimate, make your own guess, how many of those companies are going to 
be on the list 30 years from now. Here they are, these powerhouses. And how many would 
you guys think would be on the list? Well, it’s not going to be all 20. It may not even be all 
20 today or tomorrow. This was March 31st. But what would you guess? Think about that 
yourself. Would you put on five? Eight? Well, whatever it would be, I would now invite you 
to look at slide two or L2, which goes back a little more than 30 years. And look at the top 
20 from 1989. And if you look at the top 20 from 1989, there’s two things that should grab 
your interest. At least two. None of the 20 from 30 years ago are on the present list. None. 
Zero. There were then six US companies on the list and their names are familiar to you. We 
have General Electric, we have Exxon, we have IBM Corp. And they’re still around. Merck 
is down there at number twenty. None made it to the list 30 years later, it was zero. And I 
would guess that very few of you, when I asked you to play the quiz a few minutes ago, 
would’ve put down zero. And I don’t think it will be zero, but it is a reminder of what 
extraordinary things can happen. Things that seem obvious to you. Japan had this 
wonderful bull market for a very long time. So we had a number of Japanese companies on 
the list. Today, there are none. And the United States had the six. Now we have 13. But 
they aren’t the same six. I would invite you to think about one other thing as you look at this 
list. 1989 was not the dark ages. I mean, we weren’t just discovering capitalism or anything 
else. And people thought they knew a lot about the stock market and the efficient market 
theory was in. And they were all, it was not a backward time. And if you look, the top 
company at that time, had a market value of a hundred billion, $104 billion. So the largest 
company in the world of title in just a shade over 30 years has gone from a hundred billion 
to $2 trillion. 
And at the bottom, the number 20 has gone from $34 billion to something a little over 10 
times that. Well, that tells you something about what’s happened with equality, which is a 
hot subject in this country. And it tells you a little bit about inflation, but this was not a 
highly inflationary period as a whole. But it tells you that capitalism has worked incredibly 
well, especially for the capitalist. And it’s a pretty astounding number. You’d think it could 
be repeated now that, 30 years from now, that you could take $2 trillion for Apple and 
multiply any company and come up with 30 times after the leader. Yeah, it seems 
impossible and maybe it is impossible, but we were just as sure of ourselves as investors 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
and Wall Street was in 1989 as we are today, but the world can change in very, very 
dramatic ways. 
And I’ll just give you one other example you might ponder before you start getting too sure 
of yourself. One thing it shows incidentally is that --it’s a great argument for index funds --is 
that the main thing to do is to be aboard the ship. A ship. They were all going to a better 
promised land, you just have to know which one was the one to necessarily get on. But you 
couldn’t help but do well. If you just had a diversified group of equities, US equities, that 
would be my preference, but to hold over a 30-year period. But if you thought you knew a 
lot about which ones to pick or the person that you had hired, you were paying a lot of 
money to, had all these ideas, and they could tell you their best ideas. And 1989 did not 
necessarily do that. Well, overall equities were absolutely the place to be.  
SEEK COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES 
Secondly, people get enormously attracted to various industries. I mean, they think if a 
company says it’s in the XYZ industry and that’s a popular one, you can sell IPO’s. You can 
sell SPACs. People disregard sales numbers, or earnings numbers. It’s the place to be. So 
Berkshire Hathaway, where was the place to be in 1903? My dad was born in 1903, but 
that wasn’t really that big of news, but that wasn’t big news, actually, Henry Ford was 
starting the Ford Motor Company. It had failed a couple of times before, but he was about 
to change the world. I mean, the auto. And when you think about everything, we’ve got a 
great auto insurance company, if there weren’t any autos, we wouldn’t have GEICO. But it 
transformed the country. And Henry Ford brought in the $5 daily wage. And that was a 
huge thing. Assembly lines, everything, autos came along. 
So, let’s just assume that you had seen a quick glance back in 1903 of all the interstate 
highways, 290 million vehicles on the road in the United States, everything about IT and 
you’d say, “Well, this is pretty easy. It’s going to be cars. It’s going to be autos.” Well, 
Berkshire, let’s see what we’ve got up there. Yeah. No, stay where you were. Go back. I 
don’t want to change slides yet. Go back to the Ls. The Berkshire by accident. Well, we 
owned a company called Marmon. We bought it from the Pritzker family some years ago. 
The Pritzkers had built this business from many, many, many companies that they had 
acquired, and the name of their company was Marmon. And I don’t know exactly why Jay 
and Bob decided on the name of Marmon, but they did own a company called Marmon. And 
the Marmon company, getting slightly ahead of me on the slides again, but that’s okay. 
They owned this company Marmon, which in 1911 had been the company whose car won 
the first Indianapolis 500. Maybe that’s why they called it Marmon and were proud of the 
fact that the company in 1911 won one of the first Indianapolis 500. It also was the 
company that invented the rearview mirror. I’m not sure whether that was a big contribution 
to society. And certainly, around your household, a rearview mirror, you don’t want to 
emphasize too much. But the car that was entered in the Indianapolis 500, the guy who 
normally sat next to the driver and looked backwards to tell what the competitors were 
doing, he was sick. So they invented the rearview mirror. So let’s just assume that you had 
decided that autos were this incredible thing. And someday there’d be an Indianapolis 500 
and someday they’d have rearview mirrors on cars. And someday 290 million cars would 
be buzzing around the United States or autos or trucks there. 
And so I decided to look at the history and I thought I’d put up the list of auto companies 
from over the years. And I was originally going to put up just the ones that were the M’s, so 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
I could get them on one slide. But when I went to the M’s, it went on and on and on. So I 
just decided to put up the ones that started with MA, and as you can see, there were almost 
40 companies that went into the auto business, just starting with MA, including our Marmon 
there in the middle column, and which lasted for a while, quite a while, but it was selling 
cars in the 1930s, were really quite special. But in any event, there were at least 2000 
companies that entered the auto business because it clearly had this incredible future. And 
of course, you remember that in 2009, there were three left, two of which went bankrupt. 
So, there was a lot more to picking stocks than figuring out what’s going to be a wonderful 
industry in the future. 
The Maytag company put out a car. Allstate put out a car. DuPont put out a car. I mean, 
Nebraska, there was Nebraska Motor company. Everybody started car companies, just like 
everybody’s starting something now that can be where you can get money from people. But 
there were very, very, very few people that picked the winner and they got the opportunity 
for that. At Ford Motor, Henry Ford had a few partners and he didn’t like them. So he 
figured a way to buy them out. That was the beginning of the auto finance. That’s a long 
story. We won’t get into that, but you couldn’t buy into the Ford Motor. And of course, 
General Motors became the dominant company. Finally, when Henry Ford did not really 
make the shift from the Model T to the Model A, it did not work very well. So I just want to 
tell you, it’s not as easy as it sounds. 
 
And with that, we will go to Becky Quick then, and she will ask any of the four of us 
questions she has selected and which she doesn’t share with us. And we will do this for a 
considerable period of time. You can be sending in questions to her. And then later on, 
after about three and a half hours, we will have the annual meeting, which won’t take long. 
So Becky, over to you. 
INVESTMENT DECISIONS DURING THE PANDEMIC 
Becky Quick: Thanks, Warren. And hello to everybody. This first question that came in, 
came in from Andy Seas. He says he’s the owner of not nearly enough B shares. He says, 
“Mr. Buffet, you’re well known for saying to be fearful when others are greedy and be 
greedy when others are fearful. But by all appearances, Berkshire was fearful when others 
were -- most fearful in the early months of COVID, dumping airline stocks at or near the 
low, not taking advantage of the fear of gripping the market to buy shares of public 
companies at exceptional discounts and being hesitant to buy back significant amounts of 
Berkshire stock at very attractive prices. I’d appreciate hearing your thoughts surrounding 
this time and how Berkshire approached its decision-making specifically after it was 
assured through the CARES Act that the government would provide a robust backstop to 
the financial markets.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, of course, until both monetary and fiscal policy kicked in, well, we 
knew we had an incredible problem and I am, just as Charlie is the chief culture officer, I’m 
the chief risk officer of Berkshire. That’s my job. We hope we do well, but we want to be 
sure we don’t do terribly. But we didn’t sell a substantial amount. I mean, we’re a company 
with six, probably $700 billion worth of businesses. Some we own in their entirety 
and some we own a piece of, and I don’t know whether we were sellers of maybe 1% 
of the value of all the businesses we had at that period.  

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
But the airlines, just kind of interesting with the airline businesses in particular, and then I’ll 
get to what was done as fiscal monetary policy. But we had a few people at various 
subsidiaries of Berkshire that wanted to go in for help from the government and in some 
cases they had minority shareholders who owned a few percent and they said, “Well, we’re 
going to get killed by what’s happening with the regulations that are being put out and with 
stopping the economy.” And they said everybody’s going in for them and why don’t we go 
in? And I said, “Berkshire can handle it, this is for people that can’t handle what’s 
happening.” And so we’re not applying.  
But the airlines were the most prominent beneficiaries of what took place. Immediately, 
they got $25 billion initially, most of which went to the big four airlines and some of which 
went in as grants, not loans. And I think that was fine public policy. I was wishing it could 
go to every restaurant and dry cleaner and every small business that really was out of 
business and had no, they were made toast of basically. But the airlines, clearly what 
happened was not their fault in any way, shape or form. 
It wasn’t like 2008 and 2009 when people blamed the banks and hated to see them helped. 
Now airlines operate in bankruptcy. So it isn’t like that the three of the four big ones went 
through bankruptcy within the previous --the airlines were used to operating in bankruptcy, 
they would have kept operating, but it was perfectly proper for the airlines to be helped. 
The entire airline business. You look at these figures of $2 trillion for Apple. And so the 
entire big four airlines, they sold for about a hundred billion dollars almost. I mean, it’s so 
very, very small and combined they wouldn’t come close to making the cut. I mean, they 
wouldn’t be in the top 50. So anyway, they went into the government, they needed the 
government help, or they needed it, or they would go bankrupt, some of them, and really 
Congress decided they deserve the help, which I do not quarrel with at all. But imagine if 
Berkshire was the 10% holder which they had been, they might’ve very well had a very, 
very, very different result if they’d had a very, very, very rich shareholder that owned eight 
or nine percent. And they didn’t have that when they went in. You might not have gotten the 
same result. In fact, I would think you probably wouldn’t.  
I mean, I can just see the headlines now. I mean, because you’ve seen the headlines on 
some companies that took a hundred million or two, and really didn’t need it, and some of 
them gave it back, most of them gave it back, but here you’re actually looking at probably a 
different result than if we’d kept our stock. But in any event, an industry that was really 
selling for less than a hundred billion dollars lost a significant amount of money. They lost 
prospective earnings power.  
Right now, international travel’s not come back, but I would say overall to them, the 
economic recovery has gone far better than you could say with any assurance. We didn’t 
like having as much money as we had in banks at that time. So I cut back some of the bank 
investment, but basically our net sales were about 1%, or one and a half percent. And 
looking back now, a little bit better buying, but I did not consider it, I do not consider it a 
great moment in Berkshire’s history, but also, we’ve got more net worth than any company 
in the United States, under accounting principles. And we’ve got six or 700 billion of 
generally good businesses. And I think the airline business has done better because we 
sold, and I wish them well, but I still wouldn’t want to buy the airline business.  International 
--people really want to travel for personal reasons, and business travel is another thing. 
And we’ve got a big exposure to business travel, of course, through the fact that we own 
19% of American Express, and we own Precision Castparts, which serves the air business 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
very well. So, we’ve still got a big investment in air travel, a big commitment to it, but we 
wish the big four the best, and I think their managements have done a very good job during 
this period. 
CASH HOLDINGS DURING THE PANDEMIC  
Becky Quick: More specifically, beyond the airlines though, just the idea of, and this came 
from several questions, too, including one from Chris Blaine, you spent years accumulating 
cash, insisting you had your elephant gun ready. The March 2020 listed equity selloff came 
with promises from the US government that they would do what it takes, yet you sat on 
your hands. Please help me understand what I missed. 
Warren Buffett: I didn’t get quite the last part. What was the final question? 
Becky Quick: Just please help me understand what I missed. Why didn’t you use more of 
the cash at hand? 
Warren Buffett: We have about, our cash on hand has been about 15% of our values of 
our businesses. And that’s a healthy chunk, and I’d say, it’ll never get below $20 
billion, but we’re going to raise that number because it’s just the size and importance 
of Berkshire is that we could have just deployed $50 or $75 billion. 
And right before the Fed acted, we hit a point where two calls came in, but it was two or 
three days nothing could happen, when Jay Powell acted as he did, that was incredibly 
important. I should say, the Fed acted as they did, but they moved with speed and a 
decisiveness on March 23rd, that changed the situation where the economy had stopped. 
The government bond market was even disrupted. Berkshire Hathaway probably could not 
have gone out with a debt offering the day before that. It didn’t get a lot of publicity time, 
but there was a run on money market funds, a very substantial run. 
And if you look at the daily numbers on that, it was a repeat of September 2008. And this 
time I give great credit to what Bernanke and Paulson did, but this time, the Fed knew that 
saying whatever it takes, and saying it and demonstrating it, which they did on March 23rd, 
they took a market where Berkshire couldn’t sell bonds on the day before, and turned it into 
one where Carnival Cruise Lines managed to sell it a day or two later. And there was a 
record issuance of corporate debt, and companies losing money, companies that closed, 
whatever, it was the most dramatic move that you can imagine. And at the time, I 
remember the chairman saying, “How about a little help on the fiscal front?” And then 
Congress acted very, very big again. 
In 2008 and 2009, they argued about, we don’t want to give any money to those dirty 
banks, all that sort of thing, but this time there really wasn’t anybody to blame. So they saw 
what was necessary, and Congress responded. So you have fiscal monetary policy that 
responded in a way that was incredible. And it did the job. I think it did a better job 
than either the Fed or the Treasury or anybody expected. This economy right now, 
85% of it is running in super high gear, and you’re seeing some inflation and all of 
that, it’s responded in an incredible way. 
We learned something out of 2008 and 2009, and then we applied it. But I don’t think it was 
a sure thing that would happen. And the one thing about Berkshire is, we don’t want to 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
depend on anybody. We’re not a bank. We can’t go to the federal reserve if we need 
money. And we’ve got to be sure that under any circumstances, any circumstances, we 
can’t solve nuclear war, and maybe we can’t, but Blanche DuBois, if you remember, in A 
Streetcar Named Desire, said, “I depend on the kindness of strangers.” You can’t depend 
on the kindness of your friends if things really stop. I’ve seen that in several different 
places. 
We were seeing it in March, the middle of March, everybody was drawing down the credit 
lines. The banks did not expect that. They just weren’t sure they were going to be able to 
draw down their credit lines 10 days later. And so they just drew them down and they took 
the money out of the money market funds. We got very prompt. I give great credit on both 
the monetary and fiscal side of what was done, but I didn’t think it was a sure thing that 
would happen. I didn’t know how it’d be implemented. It’s worked. I think it’s worked better 
than just about anybody has expected. And I think, well, you’re seeing it now. Charlie’s got 
some views on this too, so we shouldn’t leave him out of it. 
Charlie Munger: Well, it’s crazy to think anybody’s going to be smart enough to hug the 
money and then just come out on the bottom tick in some crazy crisis and spend it all. 
Always there’s some person that does that by accident, but that’s too tough a standard. 
Anybody who expects that of Berkshire Hathaway is out of his mind. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, Charlie. Charlie and I never were very good at dancing, but we really 
can’t do that dance. 
Charlie Munger: No, we can’t. And by the way, almost nobody else can either. 
Warren Buffett: Not with tens of billions. 
Charlie Munger: No. 
Warren Buffett: Or hundreds of billions. But it’s worked out well. We forgot to show one of 
the financial slides, actually, if you go back to the balance sheet, but we did buy in, in the 
first… You’ll see the shares outstanding. If we go back to them, to what was it? I think it’s 
E2.  
The balance sheet? Yeah. There, it shows the shares outstanding at the bottom. And we 
spent about $25 billion last year repurchasing shares. We can’t buy companies as 
cheap as we can buy our own, and we can’t buy stocks as cheap as we can buy our 
own. So, and we’ve been able to do that with a fair amount of money, but looking back, 
I feel definitely we could have done better things. We would’ve sold airlines and cut back 
on banks regardless. Whether we should have bought something else at the same time’s 
another question. 
Berkshire vs Index Funds 
Becky Quick: This question comes from a long-term shareholder who’s been here for more 
than 25 years.  His name’s Ben Nowell. He’s from Minneapolis, Minnesota. And he says, 
“Mr. Munger and Mr. Buffett, after a 15-year-period of market under performance, you’re 
cautious about predicting Berkshire being able to outperform the market in the future. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Given this, what do you see the arguments for longtime shareholders to continue holding 
their stock versus diversifying the risk across an index?” 
Warren Buffett: Charlie, you want to answer that? 
Charlie Munger: Well, sure. Well, I personally prefer holding Berkshire to holding the 
market. So I’m quite comfortable holding Berkshire. I think our businesses are better 
than the average in the market. 
Becky Quick: Is it because you don’t think the market values it fairly? 
Charlie Munger: Well, these are just accidents of history, and things are fluctuating at all 
times, but on a composite basis, I’d bet on Berkshire over the market. And that’s assuming 
we’re all dead. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. I recommend it. I recommend the S&P 500 index fund, and have for 
a long, long time, to people. And I’ve never recommended Berkshire to anybody because I 
don’t want people to buy it because they think I’m tipping them into something, I’d never, no 
matter what it was selling for. And I’ve made it public. On my death, there’s a fund for my 
then-widow, and 90% will go into an S&P 500 index fund and 10% in treasury bills. On the 
other hand, I’m very happy having my future contributions go to a group of charities, that’ll 
be spread over 12 years or so after my death, to stay in Berkshire. I think the odds are 
Berkshire--Berkshire, I like it, but I do not think the average person can pick stocks. 
We happen to have a large group of people that didn’t pick stocks, but they picked Charlie 
and me to manage money for them, 50 or 60 years ago. And so we have a very unusual 
group of shareholders, I think, who look at Berkshire as a lifetime savings vehicle, and one 
that they don’t have to think about it, and one that if they don’t look at it again for 10 or 20 
years, that we’ll have taken care of the money reasonably well. But I wouldn’t argue that 
the S&P 500 over time --I like Berkshire, but I think that a person who doesn’t know 
anything about stocks at all, and doesn’t have any special feelings about Berkshire, I 
think they ought to buy the S&P 500 index. 
Becky Quick: As a follow-up to that, Gerald Silver writes in. He says, “I believe you’ve 
directed the trustees of your estate to invest substantial assets into the index fund. Isn’t 
that a vote of no confidence to your managers?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, no, because we’re talking about way less than 1% of my estate. And 
one thing I’m going to do, incidentally, all rich people get advised by their lawyers to set up 
trusts so that nobody could see your will and all that sort of thing. My will’s going to be a 
public record, and you’ll be able to check at some point that I’ve been telling you the truth 
about what is going to get done, but 99.7%, roughly, of my estate will either go to 
philanthropies or to the federal government. And before it does, I think Berkshire is a very 
good thing to hold, but for a given individual, particularly my wife, I just think that having a 
tiny fraction, which is all it takes for her to do very well for the rest of her life, I just think 
that the best thing to do is buy 90% in an S&P 500 index fund. 
Now, the index fund people naturally have started, over time, they market more and more 
products that go to other indices and everything, so they’re really starting to say to the 
American public, they’re saying, “Well, you can pick what continent to invest in, or you can 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
pick what industry, and we’ll sell you something for that.” And when they just have gotten 
through telling them, you really don’t know anything about stocks, just buy the whole index. 
So I named the 500 index as one, but it’s a tiny portion, but it’ll be her livelihood and she’ll 
have all the money she needs and way beyond it. And that’s that. And I don’t mind having 
the 99.7% large portion of it, assuming the law’s the same as now, go to 
philanthropy, to be kept in Berkshire until they finally are disposed of. 
ENERGY STOCKS 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Andrew Dickson in the UK. He says, “My question 
is in relation to the oil and gas business, and your purchase of Chevron stock. When being 
asked a question on tobacco stocks in 1997, you mentioned that individuals and companies 
occasionally have to draw moral lines about what they’re willing to do. You stated at the 
time that you were not comfortable in making a big commitment in tobacco stocks, and that 
you were uncomfortable about their prospects. Charlie has also referenced passing up on a 
private tobacco deal that you both knew was a cinch, yet you both have no regrets in 
saying no to the transaction. I’m not suggesting that the oil and gas business has the same 
no negative externalities as cigarettes. They do not. With tobacco, the cause and effect 
relationship between the products and cancer is direct, obvious, and measurable. With 
hydrocarbons, the societal costs and benefits are far more complex to evaluate. However, 
an increasing portion of society is drawing their lines in such a way that their painting does 
not include hydrocarbons, period. My question is, has the alarmism from the climate 
community now become pervasive across society to the extent it has become irrational? 
Have we built our own unrealistic consensus on the pace of change achievable with 
regards to the transition to greener energy sources to the extent that this is becoming an 
overly expensive tax worn by the current younger generation? Can we gather from your 
purchase of Chevron stock that you do not believe the howling from society, regulators and 
politician will impair the prospects of hydrocarbons, and Chevron, for that matter, in the 
next 10 years? Can investors still assume an oil and gas business that finds and produces 
oil at low cost per barrel can generate a sufficient return on capital for a long time to 
come?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I’ll give you a 10-word answer to that. I can’t remember all the 
questions that were there, but I would say that people that are on the extremes of both 
sides are a little nut. I would hate to have all hydrocarbons banned in three years, or you 
wouldn’t want a world that, it wouldn’t work. And on the other hand, what’s happening will 
be adapted to, over time, just as we’ve adapted to all kinds of things. I’m interested in a 
quote from 1997, because now we’ve talked about this before. We have no problem owning 
Costco or Walmart, and a substantial number of their stores, they sell cigarettes, it’s a big 
item. It’s something that brings people in, they know the price of cigarettes and now they 
put them up front. 
So it’s a very tough situation. We made that decision a long time ago, when we went to 
Memphis, and we looked at a business that was a very, very good business, and it was 
much less harmful, at least from everything I could find out, it was much less harmful than 
smoking tobacco, chewing tobacco, was. And these were decent people and they were 
running a legal business and they all chewed tobacco themselves. So they went there, and 
they told me that their mother was a hundred, and chewing tobacco, and all these things. 
But Charlie and I did go down in the lobby of that hotel, and we just said to ourselves, this 
is probably the best business we’ve ever seen. And I called my then son-in-law, Allen 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Greenberg, and he’d studied chewing tobacco and its effects when he was working for a 
NATO-related organization, and we decided not to do it. 
But I used to see ads in our paper from financial companies where I knew they were 
terrible, it’s a very tough thing to decide whether you get in or out of a business. It’s a very 
tough time to decide what companies benefit society more than others. I think Chevron has 
benefited society in all kinds of ways and I think it continues to do so, and I think we’re 
going to need a lot of hydrocarbons for a long time and we’ll be very glad we’ve got them, 
but I do think that the world’s moving away from them, too, and that could change. 
I don’t like making the moral judgments on stocks, in terms of actually running the 
businesses, but there’s something about every business that if you knew it, that you 
wouldn’t like. Meat packers, have you ever gone through a meat packing plant? If you 
expect perfection in your spouse or your friends or in companies, you’re not going to find it. 
And what you elect to do yourself, if you own an index fund of your own, Chevron’s not an 
evil company in the least, and I have no compunction in the least about owning Chevron. 
And if we own the entire business, I would not feel uncomfortable about being in that 
business. Charlie? 
Charlie Munger: Well, I agree. You can imagine two things. A young man marries into your 
family, he’s an English professor at, say, Swarthmore, or he works for Chevron, which 
would you pick? Sight unseen? I want to admit, I’d take the guy from Chevron. Yeah. 
Warren Buffett: I hope your daughters agree with you. 
ESG and CLIMATE RELATED RISKS AND DIVERSITY 
Becky Quick: On the other side of that argument, because there were lots of emails that 
came, on both sides of these ESG questions. This one comes from Christina Gallegos, who 
has been a shareholder since 2018. And she says, “On items two and three of the proxy 
materials, the board recommended voting against on the shareholder proposal regarding 
the reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities as well as on the shareholder 
proposal regarding diversity and inclusion reporting. Berkshire is such a force for good 
when it comes to financial literacy and empowerment through wealth creation, why not be a 
force for good and an example when it comes to these two very important issues? Please 
share with us more about the, “Against recommendation.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, I think maybe Greg can talk a little bit about what Berkshire has done 
in terms of the environment. I would say this, it’s very interesting. With everything that’s 
been-- I think we have over a million shareholders, you can’t be a hundred percent sure, 
because of street name and duplicate accounts and all that sort, but it certainly seems 
very, very likely. 
I get the letters that are written to me, I don’t think I’ve had three letters in the last year or 
anything from shareholders. And our vote on this, as you’ll see later, is that overwhelmingly 
the people that bought Berkshire with their own money voted against those propositions. 
Most of the votes for it came from people who’ve never put a dime of their own money into 
Berkshire. And so I don’t think they’ve read our annual reports, and I don’t think they read 
the reports of Berkshire Hathaway Energy. And I don’t think they know, if I talk about what 
we’re doing in high voltage transmission, we’re doing more than any company in the 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
country. The president talked about what the government’s going to do and how important 
that is.  
We have a record that overall is incredibly good, but we have a group of organizations just 
generally, and they’re nice people, but they want us to answer a bunch of questionnaires 
their way. So they want us to go to Dairy Queen and Borsheims, and all those people, have 
them fill out reports that show a bunch of figures, when the reports that count are the 
reports that Greg gets on Berkshire Hathaway Energy and the railroad. And they talk about 
three of our companies and you’ve covered 95% of it. And it’s asinine, frankly, in my view. 
Now we do some other asinine things because we’re required to do them. So, we’ll do 
whatever’s required, but to have the people at Business Wire, Dairy Queen, all these 
places, filling out reports to make it some common report that comes in. We don’t do that 
stuff at Berkshire. During the pandemic, we probably have about 12 people who come into 
headquarters and we’ve got 360,000 people working in a company, all kinds of diverse 
activities, and it’s built, I don’t want to get into the whole thing, but it’s built on autonomy. 
And I am probably the only CEO of an S&P 500 company that does not get a consolidated 
income statement every month. Every other company, I’ll bet, in the S&P 500, prints out the 
earnings they had at the end of February and March and the CEO gets it and a whole 
bunch of other people get it. 
I don’t get it. I don’t need it. And I could put six years, 70 companies, to a whole lot of 
trouble and everything, and they’d hand me something and I know the answer to it already, 
and it doesn’t make any difference. They’ve got the money they need. And so we don’t do 
things just because we’ve got a department of this or a department of that. And we don’t 
want to set up a lot of departments like that. And what’s important is what we’re doing in, 
well, primarily at Berkshire Hathaway Energy and the railroad. I’ll let Greg tell you about 
that in just one second. 
Charlie Munger: I don’t think we think we know the answer to all these questions about 
global warming and so forth. And the people who ask the questions think they know the 
answers. We’re just more modest. 
Warren Buffett: Well, but even if we knew the answer, in terms of what reports we would 
get, we would not collect a whole lot of things that don’t mean anything to us to satisfy 
people who actually don’t own any stock themselves, and in many cases, I can tell, they 
haven’t read our annual report, either. We, as I pointed out in the annual report, and 
nobody would have guessed that, people think we’re a bunch of guys that own stocks and 
all that sort of thing. 
Berkshire Hathaway owns, by GAAP accounting, more property, plant equipment, business 
infrastructure, which the President just got through talking about Wednesday night, 
infrastructure, the importance of it, we have, measured by GAAP accounting more than any 
other company in the United States. We have more than any of those companies that are 
on the list of the largest companies in the country, and we’ve got it by a substantial margin. 
So we have an investment in what makes this country move and work. 15% of the 
interstate goods move on our railroad, and we’re building the transmission. And we started 
in 2006 or 2007 planning how we would close coal plants, but you can’t close coal plants 
until you get the electricity from where it’s generated to the customer. And if you’re going to 
generate it in Wyoming, and it’s going to go to Las Vegas or someplace, and previously 
they had a coal plant near the place, because that was the way it was done 50 years ago, 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
or 75 years ago, you’d better have the transmission. There’s no sense having the wind 
blow in Wyoming, and people can’t turn on the lights in Las Vegas. 
So we went after the transmission plan question a lot earlier than they were talking about it, 
and we said 16 billion, or whatever it was in the annual report, that was underway, and we 
just added 2 billion since the annual report came out. And there’s no utility in the country 
that’s coming close to that. Tell them a little bit about it. 
Greg Abel: Sure, Warren. Thank you. And really, as Warren touched on, BHE and BNSF 
have the significant carbon footprints when you think of Berkshire. Warren, you touched on 
the disclosure that we’ve provided in the past, going all the way back to 2007. I did pull 
those two investor presentations, one from 2007 and then our most recent one in 2021. So 
if we could pull up BHE one as a slide, I think it would just highlight, going all the way back 
to 2007, we’ve been doing investor presentations for what we call our fixed income 
investors, and we’ve done every year through 2021. We’ve provided very similar 
disclosures to our board on an annual basis, and had discussions around Berkshire 
Hathaway’s energy plans to decarbonize. 
Now it’s interesting, if you go back to the 2007 fixed income conference, and we were 
having a conference at that point in time, we have third-party debt, capital debt that our 
utilities raise. It’s a traditional capital structure used across our regulated entities to 
manage our total cost to the customer. So we have investors, we present to them, as we’re 
highlighting, on an annual basis. And if you go back to that 2007 investor conference, it’s 
interesting. In that presentation we’re highlighting climate change, that it’s a fundamental 
risk, and we discussed what good policy would be. We discussed innovation, we discussed 
market transformation, and the importance of setting targets at that point in time. And we 
had recommendations for our industry. 
Since then, each year we’ve presented really a plan and a strategy around how each of our 
businesses in BHE, but each of our regulated entities, how they’re going to transform. And 
the whole transformation has been around decarbonization, managing that risk on behalf of 
our stakeholders, in our many states, our customers that we serve, and ultimately 
managing that risk for Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholders. 
Now, as you go through those presentations, there’s a common theme, and Warren 
touched on it already. You have to build the foundation first, and that foundation is around 
building the high voltage transmission system. Warren touched on it in his annual report 
this year, in the letter he highlighted that at Berkshire Hathaway Energy, we’ll be 
spending, just in the west, $18 billion on transmission. 5 billion of that’s already 
been spent, as we sit here today. And that 13 billion will be spent over the next 10 
years. That’s the foundation that then allows us to build incremental, renewable 
resources and move it to our many states that we serve at Berkshire Hathaway 
Energy, and well beyond that. 
I would highlight, while we’ve been building the transmission infrastructure in place, 
we have been building renewables. If you look at our investment through the end of 
2020, we’ve invested $30 billion, or in excess of $30 billion into renewables, and have 
really completely changed the way our businesses do business, i.e., our utility 
businesses. They’ve been decarbonizing and delivering a valued product to our 
stakeholders, to our customers. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
I think the results are really amazing, when you look at them, and I’ll give you a couple of 
reference points. If you go back to 2015, when the US was discussing joining the Paris 
Agreement, very specific targets were set. Prior to those targets being set, Berkshire 
Hathaway Energy and 12 other companies, including the Apples of the world, Google, 
Walmart, committed to Paris, and that targets needed to be set. Berkshire Hathaway 
Energy was one of those companies in 2015. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. How many other utilities were there? 
Greg Abel: Right, when there were no other energy companies that made any type of 
commitment at that point in time, I’m happy to report we made a variety of pledges. Well, 
one of them was, at that point, we’d invested $15 billion in renewables and that we 
would commit 30 billion in total. Well, we far exceeded that total now. So there’s been 
a clear commitment to reduce, decarbonizing our businesses. We have focused on 
very identifiable, quantifiable outcomes. And I think that’s very important. 
If you look at the standards that were set with the original US government’s commitments 
associated with the Paris Agreement, the target was a 26 to 28% reduction in carbon 
footprints, going back to 2005. So, that’s the reduction period, through 2025. And they 
wanted the 26 to 28% reduction level. We committed to that at BHE, and I’m happy to 
report, Warren, and, we’ve briefed our board, we achieved that in 2020. So we met our 
pledge and we met the commitment under the Paris Agreement. Then, if you fast forward to 
the discussions that are occurring right now, or have occurred, around rejoining the Paris 
agreement, the current administration has proposed that, again, using 2005 as a 
starting point, that the emission goals for reduction should be 50 to 52% by 2030. 
Again, I’m happy to report to our shareholders, and briefings we’ve provided to our 
board, but Berkshire Hathaway Energy will achieve that by 2030. Our reductions will 
hit the Paris agreement target. 
Again, the reason we can do it is we’ve built the foundation through transmission, the 
substantial investment that Warren’s highlighted, and then followed that up with very 
specific investments on the renewable side. I have one incremental slide that I hope pulls it 
all together, and that’s BHE 2, because as people discuss carbon, they often go to coal 
units. How many you own, how many have you closed? And there’s no question that can be 
an important metric, but it is a transition. And we have very much focused across the three 
utilities we own, and the ones we’ve highlighted on the slide, is to transition from our 
existing fleet to renewables using transmission. 
 
We have not become overly dependent on transitioning to gas, that’s been a clear strategy. 
So over a period of time, our coal units will retire. I’m pleased to report to our shareholders 
that, through 2020, we’ve closed 16 units to date. If you look at from 2021 through 2030, 
there’ll be an incremental 16 units closed, and then if you go through to the end of 2049, 
our remaining 14 units will be closed. And at that point in time, all our coal units are closed. 
That slide is just an aggregation of all the activities each of our business units have been 
taking to help facilitate that transition, and really transitioning to decarbonizing those units. 
And I said decarbonizing our businesses on behalf of, first and foremost our customers, the 
many stakeholders they represent in the various states, and then, equally important, 
decarbonizing those businesses on behalf of our Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. The 
only other thing I would add, because it is the entity that has the second largest carbon 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
footprint in Berkshire, and when you combine BNSF and BHE, you’re talking the material 
set of emissions within Berkshire.  
BNSF has also been very active in managing their carbon profile. They’ve committed to 
have science-based targets established for 2030. So, again, those targets will again be 
consistent with the Paris Agreement. We’ve seen what the other participants or some of 
them in the industry that have committed to, and our commitment will be very similar, i.e., it 
will be consistent with the Paris Agreement, but it’ll be a 30% reduction in BNSF’s footprint 
by 2030. And that’s been publicly disclosed. That’s on the BNSF website. Everything I’ve 
discussed regarding BHE is on their website, filed in 8-Ks, completely accessible by our 
many shareholders. So when I look at it from the perspective of our Berkshire 
shareholders, I really believe this risk is being well-managed, and we are positioning 
ourselves for the long-term. Thanks, Warren. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, incidentally, the President the other night talked about 100 billion for 
infrastructure. We’d love to spend 100 billion, but he was talking about… Transmission is 
really the problem, a big problem, because you’ve got to get from where the sun is shining 
and where the wind is blowing, essentially, to concentrations of population, and whether… 
You cross state lines and you’ll go through people’s backyards. Whether the federal 
government has better luck in just saying, “this is the way it’s going to be done,” and 
ramming it down the throats of where they go and getting it done. They may have that 
power and they’ll be able to do it faster than we are. On the other hand, we’d love to do it. 
We’ll spend 100 billion, but the speed at which we can do it… We bought Pacific Corp in 
2006 and we had a bunch of customers out in the far West and they had coal plants 
serving them. And to change that you’ve got to be able to go to where the wind blows and 
deliver it. 
But it is interesting. We have published this information. We spent far more than any 
utility in terms of renewables and transmission in the United States. And we started 
with nothing, a little operation, but the people who bought the stock with their own money, 
the individuals, they seem to understand it, and they read the reports. And we get calls, 
they say, “Well, we want to come out and talk to you about it.” Well, we’re not talking to 
them and ignoring the million people that have been with us over time and bought it with 
their own money. We will not give special treatment either to analysts or to institutions over 
the individuals that basically trust us with their savings for their lifetime. 
INSURANCE RISKS 
Becky Quick: This question is for Warren and Ajit, it comes from Fernando Lewis, a 
longtime Berkshire shareholder from Panama, who says, “As a shareholder that intends to 
remain so for many decades, my biggest concern is around possible losses, arising from 
higher than expected insurance losses. We’ve seen this in other great companies, where 
underwriting mistakes end up crippling businesses previously considered exemplary. While 
I understand that Berkshire’s culture is unique and the insurance division is full of talented 
individuals, this is a risk that concerns me. Many of us shareholders feel comfortable, now, 
given the privilege of having Mr. Buffet, Mr. Munger, and Mr. Jain looking at these deals. 
However, there will be a day when this is no longer the case. Is it reasonable to think that 
over the long-term Berkshire should focus on plain vanilla short tail insurance businesses 
like GEICO, and reduce the size of some long tail risk. I want to clarify that I have the most 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
respect and gratitude for all of Berkshire employees that have built the best insurance 
group in the world. I’m confident we have this talent to remain leaders in this field for 
decades to come. This has focused on the inherent opaqueness and risk of some 
insurance lines.” 
Warren Buffett: Ajit, do you want to lead off or- 
Ajit Jain: I mean, clearly contract certainty is an issue for us in the insurance industry. It is 
an issue that cuts across not only the long tail lines that you mentioned, but even short tail 
property focused lines. The most recent example is business interruption, which is an 
integral part of any property insurance policy that is bought and sold by corporations. 
It is a risk every time we issue a contract that either because of sloppiness, in terms of how 
that contract is written, or because of the regulatory environment we all have to live in, that 
the words in the contract may be tortured, too. And normally when they are tortured, they 
ended up going against the insurance industry, not in their favor. So it is a risk, it’s an 
unknown risk, in terms of how bad it can be. I hope we price for it, when we price for the 
product, we throw in something for the unknown unknowns, if you will. And we try and 
aggregate our exposures by major risks categories. Hopefully, that’ll give us some comfort 
in terms of having some boundaries on what the exposure really can be. 
But there’s no question, the regulators play a very important role in terms of the economics 
of the business, especially in the US, where there are 50 state regulators who we have to 
deal with in terms of pricing, in terms of contracts, in terms of what we- 
Warren Buffett: Most of the surprises in insurance, practically all of them, are 
unpleasant. I mean, you get the premium upfront that’s pleasant, and then from there on 
you get some very imaginative losses that come through, and you get some that you’ve 
taken on. We are willing to lose, in terms of sort of the outside limit, we think, we’re willing 
to lose $10 billion in a single event. And we want to get paid very appropriately for that, but 
we’ve got the resources to do it. But we don’t want to lose 10 billion in something where we 
only thought we could lose 50 million or something like that. And the current situation, for 
example, with the Boy Scouts of America, I think there were 1100 claims or something like 
that that had been filed, and now 17,000 just in- 
Ajit Jain: No, no, they’re close to 100,000 now, up by 50 times. 
Warren Buffett: And these go back to 1950 or 1960, and you’ve got people advertising for 
claims. And so all of a sudden you get a lot of claims. I’m sure a lot of the claims are valid. 
I’m sure a lot of them are invalid, and how in the world do you pick out the difference. 
Ajit Jain: It goes back to the issue that you just raised. The reason why this number of 
claims has skyrocketed from less than 2000 to close to 100,000 is because the statute of 
limitations had expired. But in several states, if not in most states, they have unilaterally 
extended the deadline by when you can make claims, and expanded it by a few years, as a 
result of which a lot more claims have appeared, funded by plaintiff lawyers who are now 
very well-funded, and that results in claims just skyrocketing. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. You get a lot of unpleasant surprises in insurance, but I’m very 
biased on this, but I think we’ve got the best insurance operation in the world. And Ajit 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
is the guy that created it. And the people at GEICO, we bought that, and they’ve done a 
wonderful thing over time to contribute their part of it, too, and other people have, but Ajit is 
the symphony conductor of it. 
COSTCO AND WELLS FARGO 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Henry Zu, and he says, “It looks like Charlie and 
Warren have some different opinions, recently, like Costco and Wells Fargo. Where’s that 
taking Berkshire?” 
Warren Buffett: Charlie? 
Charlie Munger: Well, we’re not all that different. And Costco is a company I very much 
admire, and I’ve enjoyed my long association with that company, but I love Berkshire, too. 
And luckily there’s no conflict, and Warren I don’t have to agree on every damn little 
thing we do. We’ve gotten along pretty well. 
Warren Buffett: We have, better than pretty well. We have never had an argument, really- 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. 
Warren Buffett: -- in 62 years, and it’s not that we agree on everything. We’ve, literally, in 
62 years, we’ve never gotten mad at each other. 
Charlie Munger: No, no. 
Warren Buffett: It just doesn’t happen. 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN GREG ABEL AND AJIT JAIN 
Becky Quick: This question is from Jason Plonner, and he says, “Mr. Jain and Mr. Abel, this 
question is for you, “One of the successful features of Berkshire is the strong bond between 
Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger, who managed the company better, because they had each 
other. As you two are clear leaders of the next generation at Berkshire Hathaway, can you 
please tell us about how you interact with each other or some of the other incredibly 
competent Berkshire managers you seek for advice? 
Warren Buffett: Who’s that directed at? 
Becky Quick: Greg and Ajit. 
Charlie Munger: Ajit. 
Warren Buffett: Okay. 
Ajit Jain: Okay. Well, there’s no question that the relationship Warren has with Charlie is 
unique. And it’s not going to be duplicated, certainly, not by me and Greg, no. I can’t think 
of very many other pairs that can duplicate it. Nevertheless, both Greg and I, at least 
certainly from my perspective, and I’m sure Greg will speak for himself, we’ve known each 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
other for a very long time. I certainly have a lot of respect, both at a professional level and 
a personal level, in terms of what Greg’s abilities are. We do not interact with each other as 
often as Warren and Charlie do, but every quarter we will talk to each other about our 
respective businesses and update each other on our respective businesses. 
And then during the course of the quarter, while we may not have any formal sort of 
meetings, if you will, but every time a question comes up, which is related to insurance, 
Greg will pick up the phone and call me. By the same token, if there’s any question that 
comes up relating to any of the non-insurance operations that Greg is in charge of, like we 
had recently where a client of mine was trying to find a buyer, and I picked up the phone 
and talked to Greg and we talked about how best to proceed. So there’s that, that happens 
during the course of the quarter, every quarter we exchange notes, and we have a perfectly 
well-functioning relationship between the two of us. And I hope it remains that way, Greg. 
Greg Abel: Yes. Well, Ajit, well said, and as he touched on, Warren and Charlie have an 
exceptional relationship, but I’m very proud of the relationship Ajit and I’ve had. And as Ajit 
touched on, it’s developed over many years, we’ve had the opportunity, or I’ve had the 
opportunity to see how Ajit runs the insurance business. And as Warren highlights, and 
Charlie highlights, there’s no one better at it, so I’ve had the opportunity to observe that. 
And then equally, over the years, that relationship has just built and become greater and 
greater. And as Ajit touched on, I couldn’t have more personal respect for Ajit both 
personally and professionally. And even though the interaction may be different than, say, 
how Warren and Charlie do it, as Ajit touched on, there is a regular dialogue, both around 
opportunities within our two businesses and units, both if we see something unusual that 
the other individual should hear, we make sure we’re always following up with each other. 
But it goes beyond that, Ajit has a great understanding of the Berkshire culture. I strongly 
believe I do, too. And anytime we see anything unusual in one of our businesses, it’s Ajit 
who I’m going to call and say, “Are you comfortable that we’re taking this approach? Is it 
going to be consistent with how you think about it? How you think about it in insurance?” 
So it goes beyond just discussing the businesses, but maintaining the exceptional 
culture we have at Berkshire and building upon that. So I’m very fortunate to have Ajit 
as a colleague and immensely enjoy working with him every day. Thank you. 
GEICO AND BNSF PROFITABILITY 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Glen Greenberg, it’s on the profitability of GEICO 
and BNSF. He said, “Why do these companies operate at meaningfully lower profit margins 
than their main competitors, Progressive and Union Pacific? Can we expect current 
managements to at least achieve parity? 
Warren Buffett: Was it GEICO and- 
Becky Quick: BNSF. 
Warren Buffett: Oh, actually, if you look at the first quarter figures, you’ll see that the 
Berkshire Hathaway/Union Pacific comparisons has gotten quite better. Katie Farmer’s 
doing an incredible job at BNSF, and it’d be an interesting question whether five years from 
now or 10 years from now, BNSF or Union Pacific has the higher earnings. We’ve had 
higher earnings in the past, Union Pacific passed us. The first quarter, you can look at and 
they think they’ve got a slightly better franchise. We think we’ve got a slightly better 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
franchise. We know we’re larger than Union Pacific, we will do more business than they do. 
And we should make a little more money than they do, but we haven’t in the last few years. 
But it’s quite a railroad, I feel very good about that. 
I should go back to the previous question. People talking about the aging management at 
Berkshire, and I always assume they’re talking about Charlie when they say that. But I 
would like to point out that in three more years, Charlie will be aging at one percent a year. 
And no one is aging less than Charlie. If you take some of these new companies with 25-
year-olds, they’re aging at four percent or so. So we will have the slowest aging 
management, percentage-wise, by far than any American company has. 
Becky Quick: Did you want to talk about GEICO versus Progressive, too, because I got a 
lot of questions on that? 
Warren Buffett: Progressive has had the best operation in recent years, in terms of 
matching rate to risk, and I mean, that’s what insurance is all about among other things. 
But I mean, you have to have the right rate. If you think that 90-year-olds and 20-year-olds 
have an equal chance of dying, I mean, you’re going to be out of business very quickly, the 
life insurance business. And you will get all the 90-year-old risks and the other guy will get 
the 20-year-old risks. 
And the same thing applies in auto insurance. I mean, there’s a huge difference between 
16-year-old males, and how they drive, and 40-year-old married, employed people. So 
companies that do the best job of actually having the appropriate rate for every one of their 
policy holders is going to do very well, and Progressive has done a very good job on that. 
And we’re doing a much better job on that already, but Todd Combs has gone there. And 
it’s a very interesting business, both Progressive and GEICO were started in the ’30s. I 
believe I’m right about Progressive on that, and we were started in ’36. We have had the 
better product for a long, long time, I mean, in terms of cost. And here we are 80, 85 years 
later, in our case, and we have about 13% or so of the market, whatever it may be, and 
Progressive is just a slight bit less. So the two of us have 25% of the market, roughly, in 
this huge market, after 80 something years of having a better product. So it’s a very slow 
changing, competitive situation, but Progressive has done a very, very good job recently. 
We’ve done a very, very good job over the years, and we’re doing a good job now, but we 
have made some very significant improvements. 
And if you looked at, you don’t want to look at the quarters too much, but our profitability in 
the first quarter was good, but we gave back more money under our give back program, 
when the virus broke out, we gave 2.8 billion on our give back program, that was larger 
than any company as well. It was the largest, I think, in the country. And GEICO and 
Progressive are both going to do very well in the future. And actually, Union Pacific 
and BNSF are going to do well in the future. It’s just, in both cases, we want to do a 
little bit better than the other guy. 
Ajit Jain:  Can I just add a little bit? There’s no question, Progressive is a machine. They’re 
very good at what they do, whether it’s underwriting, which Warren talked about, in terms of 
matching rate to risk, whether it’s handling claims. Having said that, I think GEICO is 
catching up with Progressive. More than a year ago, about a year ago, Progressive had 
margins that were almost twice as much as GEICO’s, and growth rates that were almost 
twice as much as GEICO’s. If you look at the results, as of now, Progressive is still 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
crushing it, in terms of growth, relative to GEICO, but GEICO has certainly caught up with 
Progressive in terms of margins, and, hopefully, that gap will be non-existent in the future. 
The second point I want to make on the issue of matching rate to risk, GEICO had clearly 
missed the bus, and were late in terms of appreciating the value of telematics. They have 
woken up to the fact that telematics plays a big role in matching rate to risk. They have a 
number of initiatives, and, hopefully, they will see the light of day before not too long, and 
that’ll allow them to catch up with their competitors, in terms of the issue of matching rate to 
risk. 
Warren Buffett: I will predict that five years from now, State Farm is still the largest auto 
insurer, but I will predict that five years from now, it’s very likely that the top two will be 
GEICO and Progressive, and in which order we’ll see but both companies are going to do 
very well, in my opinion. And GEICO’s done well extremely well, but Progressive was better 
at setting the right rate, and we’re catching up, I think, fairly fast. 
Ajit Jain: Yeah, excuse me, Progressive has certainly done better, but when it comes to 
branding, GEICO is, I think, miles, excuse me, ahead of Progressive. And in terms of 
managing expenses as well, I think GEICO does a much better job than anyone else in the 
industry. 
APPLE 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Vitoro Aguicci, from Switzerland, who writes in, 
“Why in the recent past did Berkshire sell some of the common stocks owned on Apple? If 
the company is considered Berkshire’s fourth jewel, why didn’t Berkshire buy more of Apple 
stock in 2020? This seems to be counterintuitive.” 
Warren Buffett: Well, we have 5.3% or something like that now, it’s going up in the first 
quarter because we bought in our shares, which helps our own shareholders expand their 
interest in Apple, indirectly, without laying out a penny, and then Apple’s repurchased its 
shares, and just announced another repurchase program. We look at Apple as a business 
that we own 5.3%. Now we’ve got… It’s a marketable security, so it shows up way greater 
than any other marketable security we have. But, of course, if you look at our railroad, as 
we mentioned, well, Union Pacific is selling for about 150 billion in the market. We own one 
that’s larger than the Union Pacific and making it a little  
So it’s an extraordinarily… Apple, it’s got a fantastic manager. Tim Cook was 
underappreciated for a while. He’s one of the best managers in the world, and I’ve 
seen a lot of managers. And he’s got a product that people absolutely love. And 
there’s an installed base of people and they get satisfaction rates of 99%. And I get 
the figures from the furniture market as to what’s being sold, and if people come in and 
they want an Android phone, they want an Android phone. If they want an Apple phone, 
you can’t sell them the other way. The brand and the product, it’s an incredible product. It’s 
a huge bargain to people. I mean, the part it plays in their lives is huge. I use it as a phone, 
but I’m probably the only guy in the country. Maybe some descendant of Alexander 
Graham Bell is doing the same thing, but it is indispensable to people. 
And it costs… A car costs $35,000, and I’m sure with some people, if we asked them 
whether they had to give up their Apple or give up their car, and really make the choice for 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
the next five years, who knows what they would do? And we got a chance to buy it, and I 
sold some stock last year, although our shareholders still had their percentage 
interest go up, because we repurchase shares. But that was probably a mistake. In 
fact, Charlie in his usual, low-key way, let me know that. You thought it was a mistake 
too, didn’t you, Charlie? 
Charlie Munger: Yes. 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. I could only do so many things that I can get away with. Charlie and I 
kind of used them up between Costco and Apple. And he very likely was right, in both 
circumstances. It’s an extraordinary business, but I do want to emphasize that in his own 
way, it’s a different way, but Tim Cook is…we see a lot of managers of a lot of businesses, 
and you’re looking at two great ones on both ends here. He’s handled that business so 
well, he couldn’t do what Steve Jobs, obviously, could do in terms of creation, but Steve 
Jobs couldn’t, really, I don’t think, do what Tim Cook has done in many respects. 
Charlie Munger: Well, I also think it’s clear that that list you showed of the leading 
American companies, it’s been very important for America that we’ve done so well in this 
new tech field. And I, personally, would not like to see our present giants brought down to 
some low level by some anti-competitive reasonings. I don’t think they’re doing a lot of 
harm anti-competitively. I think they’re a credit to the Americans, a credit to our civilization. 
Warren Buffett: And they’re huge. 
Charlie Munger: And they’re huge, and that’s good for us. 
VALUATION OF TECH STOCKS 
Becky Quick: Well, let me ask a follow-up question on that then, this comes from Jack 
Sang, who says, what’s your mindset, when you see so many of these highflyers, not the 
GME or meme stocks, but more like the big tech growth stocks gaining 50%, 100%, 200%, 
et cetera, in a matter of a year or less? I know you eventually bought Apple in 2016, 
because of the quality of their businesses and their management. How do you assess if 
these highflyers are worthy of your investment, given these crazy high valuations that 
muddy the waters?” 
Warren Buffett: Well, we don’t think they’re crazy. But we don’t… at least I… Charlie and 
I feel that I understand Apple and its future with consumers around the world better than I 
understand some of the others, but I don’t regard prices, and that gets back, well, it gets 
back to something fundamental in investments, I mean, interest rates, basically, are to 
the value of assets, what gravity is to matter, essentially. And on the way out here, I 
tore out a little clipping from the Wall Street Journal yesterday, I’m probably the only one 
that read, it’s so small and having trouble finding it. But anyway, on Thursday, the US 
treasury sold some four week notes, treasury bills, and the price was in, if you looked at 
your Wall Street Journal down in a little corner next to last page in my paper, in the very 
bottom corner, here it is, the results of the treasury auction, a little tiny thing. 
They had applications on the four-week treasury bill for 100 and some billion. They 
accepted bids for 43 billion worth. And it says average price. Okay. 100.000000, six zeros. 
And essentially, people were giving 40 some billion dollars to the registry, and they offered 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
to give 130 billion or something, whatever the amount tender, and the treasury received the 
money at zero. And Janet Yellen has talked a couple of times about the reduced carrying 
cost of the debt. I think in the last fiscal quarter, US government, which owes a few billion, 
a few trillion dollars, I should say, few trillion dollars more than a year ago, their interest 
expense was down eight percent. So, you’ve had this incredible reduction in the so-
called super risk-free group, the short-term treasury bill, and that is the yardstick 
against which other values are measured. 
Warren Buffett: I mean, if I could reduce gravity, its pull by about 80%, I mean, I’d be in the 
Tokyo Olympics jumping. And essentially, if interest rates were 10%, valuations are much 
higher. So, you’ve had this incredible change in the valuation of everything that 
produces money, because the risk-free rate produces, really short enough right now, 
nothing. It’s very interesting. I brought this book along, because for 25 or more years, Paul 
Samuelson’s book was the definitive book on economics. It was taught in every school and 
Paul was… he was the first Nobel prize winner. It’s sort of a cousin to the Nobel prize, they 
started giving it in economics, I think, in the late ’60s, he was the first winner from the 
United States, Paul Samuelson. Amazingly enough, the second winner was Ken Arrow, and 
both of them are the uncles of Larry Summers. Larry Summers had the first two winners as 
uncles. 
But Paul, he was a wonderful guy. He was a wonderful writer, the definitive writer. And so, I 
got out the ’73 economics books. And bear in mind, probably economics kind of started as 
kind of an interesting science and respectable, with Adam Smith we’ll say. He wrote The 
Wealth of Nations in 1776, and he’d written some books earlier, but you sort of date from 
kind of when our countries started. And then you had all these famous economists, 
subsequently, and Paul became the most famous of his time. So, I looked up in the back 
under interest rates. I looked for negative interest rates. There’s nothing there. So, I finally 
found zero interest rates, and Paul Samuelson, brilliant man, after a couple of hundred 
years, we’ve had of kind of studying economics, basically. He said, “You can conceive 
perhaps of negative interest rates, but it can’t ever really happen.” And that was in the 
1970s, this wasn’t back in the dark ages. And no economist wrote up and said, “This is a 
terrible line to have in a book,” or anything. And here we are in this world where we had 
zero interest rates last year, I mean, last week on or this week, on a four-week note, and 
Berkshire Hathaway, which has more than this, but let’s say we had $100 billion in treasury 
bills, we have more than that. Before the pandemic, we were getting about a billion and a 
half from that a year. At present rates, if it’s two basis points, we’d get 20 million. Imagine 
your wages going from $15 an hour to 20 cents an hour, so it’s been a sea change. And it 
was designed to be that. 
I mean, that’s why the Fed moved the way they did. They wanted to give a massive push, 
just like Mario Draghi did in Europe, in, whenever it was, 2012, when he says, “Whatever it 
takes,” and they want the negative rates. And the Fed has said, it doesn’t want to go the 
negative rates, and I think the Treasury actually has got some small bar. But if present 
rates were destined to be appropriate, if the 10 years should really be at the price it 
is, those companies that the fellow mentioned in this question, they’re a bargain. I 
mean, they have the ability to deliver cash at a rate that’s, if you discounted back and 
you’re discounting at present interest rates, stocks are very, very cheap. Now, the 
question is what interest rates do over time. But there’s a view of what interest rates 
will be based in the yield curve out to 30 years and so on. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
It’s a fascinating time. We’ve never really seen what shoveling money in on the basis 
that we’re doing it on a fiscal basis, while following a monetary policy of something 
close to zero interest rates, and it is enormously pleasant. But in economics, there’s 
one thing always to remember, you can never do one thing, you always have to say, 
“And then what?” And we are sending out huge sums, I mean, the President said it on 
Wednesday, 85% of the people, were going to get a $1,400 check or… 85%. And a couple 
of years ago, we were saying 40% of the people never could come up with $400 of cash. 
So, we’ve got 85% of the people getting those sums, and so far, we’ve had no unpleasant 
consequences from it. I mean, people feel better. The people who got the money feel 
better, and the people are lending money don’t feel very good, but it causes stocks to go 
up. It causes business to flourish. It causes an electorate to be happy, and we’ll see if it 
causes anything else. And if it doesn’t cause anything else, you can count on it continuing 
in a very big way. But there are consequences to everything in economics. That is why 
the Googles and the Apples, but we don’t have a Microsoft, but they are incredible 
companies, in terms of what they earn on capital. They don’t require a lot of capital, and 
they gush out more money. And if you’re trying to find bonds that gush out more money 
from the federal government, we got a 100 billion that’s gushing out like $30 or $40 million 
a year, or whatever it may be depending on the short term rates. 
So that puts the pressure on, which is exactly, of course, what the monetary authorities 
want done. I mean, they’re pushing the economy in a… and they’re doing it in Europe, even 
more extreme, and they’re pushing, and we’re aiding it with fiscal policy, and people feel 
good and people will become numb to numbers. Trillions don’t mean anything to anybody, 
and $1,400 does mean something to them. So, we’ll see where it all leads, but Charlie and 
I consider it the most interesting movie by far we’ve ever seen in terms of economics, don’t 
we, Charlie? 
Charlie Munger: Yes, and the professional economists, of course, have been very surprised 
by what’s happened. It reminds me of what Churchill said about Clement Attlee. He said, 
“He was a very modest man and had a great deal to be modest about,” and that’s exactly 
what’s happened with the professional economists. They were so confident about 
everything, and it turns out the world is more complicated than they thought. 
MODERN MONETARY THEORY 
Becky Quick: As a follow-up to that, Pat Kane is asking, what’s your opinion about the 
economic theory MMT, especially the United States because it’s the reserve currency for 
the world? 
Charlie Munger: Well, I think the modern monetary theorists are more confident than 
they ought to be, too. I don’t think we, any of us know what’s going to happen with 
this stuff. I do think there’s a good chance that this extreme conduct is more feasible 
than everybody thought. But I do know if you keep just doing it without any limit, it 
will end in disaster 
VALUE OF FLOAT 
Becky Quick: On a related question, Elle Kandel wrote in on this, too, and said, if you can 
borrow money at a guaranteed lower even zero interest rate, is it still worthy of borrowing 
money for not that guaranteed cost from the insurance operation. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Warren Buffett: It reduces the value of float by a substantial amount. And we have a 
flexibility with our float that virtually no one has, and I’ve written about this in the annual 
letter. But the value of float has gone down dramatically because everything is off of 
interest rates. And when you get to negative interest rates, if a country can borrow at 
negative interest rates, you get into something, that’s kind of akin to the St. Petersburg 
Paradox. And those of you who want to go search you can find some interesting things on 
it, but it becomes infinite. And it’s a crazy consequence of a bunch of abstract mathematics 
where you get there. 
But, you lose gravity entirely, and if you tell me that I’m going to have to lend money to the 
government at minus 2% a year, and I’m talking nominal figures, not… You’re just telling 
me how I’ll go broke over time, if I do that. So, it pushes you to do other things, and of 
course, we’ve seen it. Well, we saw the rest of the world do it in even more extreme 
fashion, but nobody… Paul Samuelson, brilliant man, nobody, nobody thought he could do 
this. And we don’t really know what the consequences are, but we know there are 
consequences, obviously. 
SPACS 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Sam Butler, who says he’s been a shareholder for 
many years and asks, what impact does the rise of so many new SPACs have on 
Berkshire’s ability to find and close new acquisitions? 
Warren Buffett: Well, it’s a killer. These SPACs generally have to spend their money in 
two years as I understand it. So, they have to buy a business in two years. If you put a gun 
to my head and said, you’ve got to buy a big business in two years and I’d buy one, but it 
wouldn’t be much of one, we’d look and look, and now there are, I don’t know how many, 
whether it’s hundreds…there’s always been the pressure from private equity funds. I mean, 
if you’re running money for somebody else, and you’re getting paid a fee, and you get the 
upside and you don’t have the downside, you’re going to buy something. 
And I could tell you about -- I had a very famous, I had a call from a very famous figure 
many years ago that was involved in it and wanted to learn about re-insurance. And I said, 
“Well, I don’t really think it’s a very good business.” And he said, “Yeah,” and he says, “If I 
don’t spend this money in six months, I’ve got to give it back to the investors.” So, it’s a 
different equation that you have if you’re working with other people’s money, where you get 
the upside and you have to give it back to them if you don’t do something. Frankly, we’re 
not competitive with that. No, that won’t go on forever, but it’s where the money is now, and 
Wall Street goes where the money is and it does anything basically that works. And SPACs 
have been working for a while. You stick a famous name on it, you can sell almost 
anything. And it’s an exaggerated version of what we’ve seen in, in kind of…Well, gambling 
done type market. 
In fact, I did have a quote from Keynes that we might put up on -- let’s see if I’ve got… 
Yeah, this is probably one of the most famous quotes in history, because it really sums up 
the problem of the fact we’ve got the greatest markets the world could ever imagine. I 
mean, imagine being able to own parts of the biggest businesses in the world and putting 
billions of dollars in them and take it out two days later. I mean, compared to farms or 
apartment houses or office buildings, where it takes months to close a deal, the markets 
offer a chance to participate in earning assets on a basis that’s a very, very low cost and 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
instantaneous, huge, all kinds of good things, but it makes it real money if they can get the 
gamblers to come in because they provide more action and they’re willing to pay sillier fees 
and all kinds of things. 
So you have this incredible, huge asset to humanity, but it really makes its money when 
people are doing stupid things. I mean, that’s where the money really is. And Keynes wrote 
this in 1936, it says 1939 on the slide. But he wrote in 1936 in the general theory, that 
“Speculators may do no harm as bubbles on a steady stream of enterprise. But the 
position is serious when enterprise becomes the bubble on a whirlpool of 
speculation. When the capital of element of a country becomes a by-product of the 
activities of a casino, the job is likely to be ill-done.” 
Well, the stock market, we’ve had a lot of people in the casino in the last year. You 
have millions and billions of people who’ve set up accounts where they day trade, 
where they’re selling… Put some calls, where they, I would say that you had the greatest 
increase in the number of gamblers essentially. And there’s nothing wrong with gambling 
and they got better odds than they’ve got if they play the state lottery, but they have cash in 
their pocket. They’ve had action. And they actually don’t have a lot of good results. And if 
they just bought stocks, they’d do fine and hold them. 
But the gambling impulse is very strong in people worldwide, and occasionally it gets an 
enormous shove and conditions lead to this place where more people are entering the 
casino than are leaving every day, and that creates its own reality for a while. And nobody 
tells you when the clock is going to strike 12:00, and it all turns to pumpkins and mice. But 
when the competition is playing with other people’s money, or if they’re playing foolishly 
with their own money, but the big stuff is done with other people’s money, they’re going to 
beat us. I mean, we’re not… that’s a different game and they’ve got a lot of money, so 
we’re not going to have much luck on acquisitions while this sort of a period 
continues. But it’s happened before. This is about as extreme as we’ve seen it. Isn’t it, 
Charlie? 
Charlie Munger: Yes, of course, I call it fee driven buying. In other words, it’s not 
buying because it’s a good investment. They’re buying it because the advisor gets a fee, 
and of course the more that you get, the sillier your civilization is getting, and to some 
extent, it’s a moral failing, too, because the easy money made by things like SPACs and 
returned derivatives and so on, and so on. You push that to excess, it causes horrible 
problems with the civilization and reflects no credit on the people who are doing it, 
and no credit on the regulators and voters that allow it. So, I think we have a lot to be 
ashamed of of the current conditions. 
Warren Buffett:But it’s where the money is. 
Charlie Munger: Yeah, but we still… It’s shameful, what’s going on. Yeah. It’s not just 
stupid, but it’s shameful. 
Warren Buffett: It’s not, I don’t regard it as shameful on a lot of the people that gamble. I 
mean, gambling is a very human instinct and they’ve got money in their pocket and they 
know somebody else has made money who they don’t think is any smarter than they are… 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Charlie Munger: No, no, I don’t mind the poor fish that gamble. I don’t like the professionals 
that take the suckers. 
WAITING FOR FAIR VALUATIONS 
Becky Quick: All right. Moshi Levine writes in, he’s an American living in Israel. He says, if 
you deem stock prices to be overvalued or in a bubble, do you think it’s best to keep your 
money in cash while waiting for prices to come down to a fair price? Or would it be a better 
idea to invest this money in some way, while waiting until stock prices are fair again, and 
then sell the investment to buy the stocks? 
Warren Buffett:Well, Charlie and I have had that discussion on a lot of things there. We 
bought some stocks that we really don’t know that much about, but I’m not really 
comfortable doing that. 
Charlie Munger: We’re used to shooting fish in a barrel, but that’s gotten harder. 
Warren Buffett: We’ve got probably 10 to 15% of our total assets in cash beyond what 
I would like to have just as a way of protecting the owners and the people that are 
our partners from ever having us ever get in a pickle. You know, we really run 
Berkshire and make sure that we don’t want to lose other people’s money who stick with us 
for years. We can’t help somebody who buys it today and sells it tomorrow. But we’ve got a 
real gene that pushes us in that direction, but we’ve got more than we… We’ve got 
probably 70 or 80 billion, something like that, maybe that we’d love to put to work, 
but that’s 10% of our assets, roughly. And we probably won’t get a chance to do it 
under these conditions, but conditions change very, very, very rapidly sometimes in 
markets. 
And we do have people that would like to join us, but the market option they have is just too 
great for them. If they’re publicly traded, I mean, they basically can’t, they would have great 
difficulty, well, then making a deal with us because somebody else would come along with 
using other people’s money. We may be unhappy about the 70 billion, but we’re very happy 
about the other $700 billion, so it’s not like we should complain. 
Becky Quick: Warren, when we spoke before the annual meeting, you said that it was okay 
if I asked a follow-up or two, and I’d like to make one of those right now, you said you 
bought some stocks that you don’t know a lot about, what are they? 
Warren Buffett: Well, I will not get into naming what stocks --  it may be that there’s 
something there that I think I know about that I don’t know about, but we’ve bought stocks 
where Charlie and I-- I mean, we know the business generally, but we don’t have any 
insights. And they are as a group, if you told me I was going to be shot unless I got the best 
result, I would rather own those stocks than the treasury bills we own. But on the other 
hand, we work with the quantities of money where if we put $50 billion into things that I’m 
kind of so, so about, but that are better than treasury bills, I’m not wildly comfortable about 
that even though it can be undone. 
 
That’s selling 50 billion when it’s really attractive to buy something else. There’s a lot of 
slippage that can happen in moving sums like that around. So that’s something we talk 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
about all the time. They’re good companies, they’re fine companies, but do we know 
something about those companies or have a way of evaluating that gives us an edge, the 
answer.  What do you feel about it, Charlie? We’ve talked about it a lot. 
Charlie Munger: Well, of course it’s a lot harder. And I think one consequence of the 
present situation is that Bernie Sanders has basically won. And that’s because with 
everything boomed up so high and interest rates so low, what’s going to happen is the 
millennial generation is going to have a hell of a time getting rich compared to our 
generation. And so the difference between the rich and the poor and the generation that’s 
rising is going to be a lot less. So, Bernie has won. He did it by accident, but he won. 
PART II 
SHARE REPURCHASES 
Becky Quick: All right. This question comes from Danny Poland, a shareholder from 
Pittsburgh. A prominent Senator recently categorized share buybacks as a form of market 
manipulation. You’ve often said that repurchasing shares at prices below intrinsic value 
benefits continuing shareholders, could you and Charlie, please elaborate on the higher 
order effect that these share repurchases have on society? 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, they’re a way essentially of distributing cash to the people that 
want the cash when other co-owners mostly want you to re-invest, and it’s a savings 
vehicle. If the four of us sitting at this table decided we’d buy a few Dairy Queen franchises, 
we formed a little company and we all put in a million dollars or something like that, and we 
buy the Dairy Queen franchises and they’re doing well. And three of the four of us want to 
keep buying more Dairy Queen franchises, and we’re not done building and saving for the 
future. And we’re in the wealth creation business. And the fourth one says, “Listen, I’ve 
gotten rich enough. I’d rather take some money out.  Well, there’s only two ways to do it. 
We can pay dividends, all four of us, three of us of whom don’t want it. And, and we can 
repurchase the shares at a fair price. If it was just the four of us, we pick out a fair price 
and the fourth one gets bought out of his interest. 
 
I find it almost impossible to believe some of the arguments that are made that it’s 
terrible to repurchase shares from a partner if they want to get out of something and 
you’re able to do it at a price that’s advantageous to the people that are staying, and 
it helps slightly the person that wants out. And a majority of the Berkshire shareholders, 
a great majority, we had to vote on dividends one time, we’ve got savers. Now that’s partly 
because we’ve advertised ourselves as being that sort of a vehicle. We’ve created that 
something, we’ve stuck with it for 57 years, and people, individuals, a huge number, look at 
Berkshire as something they’re going to own until they die and now their circumstances 
may change, their needs may change, but the savers generally keep saving. 
 
We’ve just recently had somebody that a father came with us 60 years ago and billions of 
dollars. And they just weren’t saving exactly for their old age. It just was sort of built into 
them that they liked to do it, now philanthropies will get got a lot of money and so on. It’s 
the most, what could be more logical than if a very small minority of your holders want to 
get out and most of them want to stay in and the person wants to get out, wants the money, 
you don’t give the money to everybody, you give it to the one who wants it. And you do it at 
a price that is beneficial to most parties, on a private deal, you’d work out the fair value. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
The market tells you the value in the case of a publicly traded company. Charlie, got 
anything? 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, if you’re repurchasing stock, just to bull it higher, it’s deeply 
immoral, but if you’re repurchasing stock because it’s a fair thing to do in the 
interest of your existing shareholders, it’s a highly moral act, and the people who are 
criticizing it are bonkers. 
 
DIVIDENDS VS SHARE REPURCHASES 
 
Becky Quick: Okay. This comes from Gary Gambino. He wants to know if Berkshire would 
switch its capital return policy to dividends from buybacks. If the capital gains rate goes up 
to 43.4%, dividends would be far more tax advantaged for shareholders under that 
scenario. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we literally did have a vote by our shareholders. Now we’ve got a 
different group of shareholders than a REIT would have, or an MLP might have. I mean, 
there’s different… People select what they go into and people that go into SPACs are 
hoping the stock goes up next week, I mean basically, and we’ve got a bunch of people 
that were assembled over 55 years. But they started with a base of people that it was a 
lifetime investment. And if they wanted to cash out, they thought they’d get a fair price at 
that time. But they really didn’t, they bought it with no intentions like that. So, we had a 
vote, and it was something like 97% or something of the shareholders said that they 
don’t want a dividend. And now that wouldn’t be true at other companies and it’d be crazy 
to be paying a regular dividend like Coca-Cola has done for many years, and then all of a 
sudden change the policy on millions of people who have bought it with one expectation in 
mind and try and change it into a different animal. But Coca Cola isn’t going to change to 
Berkshire and Berkshire isn’t going to change to Coca-Cola. We’ve got a different group of 
owners and it will keep self-selecting because people have a choice every day. Which sort 
of thing do you want to be in? And Berkshire is a certain kind of animal in that respect. 
So we will not – if they jig around the tax laws -- that’s really got nothing to do with the 
decision. I mean, we’ve got a very substantial majority of people that  want us to 
reinvest the money. And what they’re more concerned about is whether we find 
something to do with the money, the hundred billion or something, and repurchasing 
shares is something that helps them in their… they own a larger percentage of 
Berkshire as they go along. And they would love to see us buy another business, but 
they don’t mind us intensifying their interest in the present business. 
 
TAX INCREASES 
 
Becky Quick: You’ve got a lot of questions that came in on taxes. So I’ll run through a few 
of them. We’ll see kind of how many you answered before we get to them? But this one 
came from Arthur Lewis in Denver. What are your thoughts on the new administration’s 
capital gains, corporate tax, and stepped up basis tax increases? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, if Charlie wants to answer that, I’ll be glad to have him do it. I, long 
ago, many times said that I don’t put my political opinions or anything in a blind trust when I 
take this job, but I also don’t speak for Berkshire Hathaway. I mean, we’ve got people that 
have very different views on taxes and I’ve expressed some things in the past. I don’t like 
to speak on behalf of, when I’m sitting at a Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting, 
presumably speaking for Berkshire, I don’t really like get into political questions generally. I 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
don’t really think I should, but I also think if somebody asked me who I voted for in the last 
election, in a personal way, I voted for Biden. But I’ve never asked a single employee of 
ours who they voted for, anything of the sort, what religion. I am not authorized to go 
around signing my name as chairman of Berkshire Hathaway – I do to proposals. If I write 
op ed pieces, I do it as an individual, I try and make it clear. So I don’t think -- I don’t want 
to use the meeting to give a lot of views on taxes. Charlie. 
 
Charlie Munger: No, but I think it’s probably a mistake to be basically anti-capitalism. I think 
capitalism is what raises GDP for everybody. And I have also a feeling that Benjamin 
Franklin was right when he said that it’s hard for an empty sack to stand upright, and to 
some extent, the prosperity of leading American institutions helps them behave better. 
Now, there are exceptions in promotional financing but by and large Franklin was right. And 
so I’m a little wary of just constantly getting mad at people because they have a little more 
money. 
 
Becky Quick: Charlie, there was a question that came in specifically to you on the tax 
issue. Over the years, and with emphasis in 2020, we’ve heard people leaving California for 
various reasons, such as high cost of living, high taxes, et cetera. I understand that you 
believe it’s dumb for states to have policies and laws that provoke rich residents leaving, 
but what are your thoughts on those people leaving? What keeps you in California? 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, that’s a very interesting question. I frequently said that I wouldn’t 
move across the street to save my children 500 million in taxes and that’s my personal view 
of the subject, but I do think it is stupid for states to drive out their wealthiest citizens, the 
old people that don’t commit any crimes, they donate to the local charity. Who in the hell in 
their right mind would drive out the rich people? I mean, Florida and places like that are 
very shrewd and places like California are being very stupid. It’s contrary to the interest of 
the state. 
 
Becky Quick: One more question for you, Jack Robbins asks, how will a 25 to 28% 
corporate tax rate affect Berkshire’s companies? 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, I don’t think it would be the end of the world. We will adapt to 
the tax rate, whatever it is. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. I would say that if they raise the tax rate, the federal government’s 
owning a larger percentage of the business. But I’m not saying what the tax rate is, but we 
have a class A stock and a class B stock. The US government owns what I call the class 
AA stock, that’s a very special stock. They get a percentage of the earnings, but they don’t 
own the assets and they don’t vote on who gets to run the place or anything else. But if the 
government wants to take… When I was first starting, they used to take 52%, the federal 
government did, of corporate profits and they’ve got-- what would you pay to own the 
government’s class AA stock? If there was a public issue by the US Treasury and they 
said, this vehicle – Give it a name like SPAC or something, even sexier, but… And all it will 
do is it owns the future tax payments of Berkshire Hathaway forever? 
 
And how much is that stock now worth? And it’ll pay a big cash dividend and they’ll go up 
as we retain earnings and build the company and everything else. It’s worth more if the tax 
rate is 25% or 28% or 52% than at 21%. They own a special stock, and when people talk 
about how it all gets passed through to the customer and everything -- in the utility 
business, that actually does, that’s a special case, but it doesn’t in most of our businesses. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
I mean, it’s just a corporate fiction. When they put out statements about the fact that this 
will be terrible for all of you people, we pay more taxes and it hurts the Berkshire 
shareholders if rates are higher and that may be quite appropriate. 
 
But to say otherwise, it doesn’t make any sense. I would love to see the government 
actually issue, they could set up a company, just call it the Berkshire Hathaway tax 
company. And it would take all the taxes we paid every year. How much would they be able 
to sell that asset for? They talk about unfunded obligations of the government. That’s an 
unreported asset of the federal government, but they own part of Berkshire and they get to 
determine how much, I mean, it’s an interesting question. 
 
Becky Quick: One last tax question. This one comes from William Barnard, who says in the 
owner’s manual, a portion of your annual report, Warren, you state, on my death, none of 
my stock will have to be sold to take care of the cash requests I’ve made or for taxes. With 
the recent Biden proposal to treat unrealized gains as sold and taxable at death at a 43.4% 
rate change the amount of stock required to be sold for payment of taxes upon your death? 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, well, the tax laws can be changed tomorrow, and I don’t, you know, it 
can be done a lot of different ways and it’s been done a lot of different ways in the past. I 
can tell you, I can actually make a promise to society that 99.7% of what I have when I die 
will either go to philanthropy or to the federal government and the federal government can 
actually determine the rules on that. And, no, I would prefer that it would go to philanthropy. 
I think it actually will accomplish more utility if it goes to be used by some smart people in 
philanthropy than if it simply reduces the federal debt by a hundred billion dollars or 
something when I die. I don’t think it makes a damn bit of difference if the federal debt is 
100 billion higher or lower. It won’t change anything in the world. And at present day, it 
doesn’t really save them anything because they can borrow a hundred billion and it doesn’t 
cost them anything anyway, but that condition won’t prevail, but I would not regard it, I’m 
just talking personally, I’m not advocating this as public policy, but I wouldn’t, if they took it 
all, it would not bother me. I mean it- 
 
Charlie Munger: I guarantee it won’t bother you. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, yeah, Charlie says, you won’t know. If the American democracy 
decides that it’s better to take it all, which I don’t think they will, or I don’t think they should, 
but nevertheless, so what? I would like to see it used to accomplish the most for humanity 
and that means having smart people properly motivated, and more importantly, I mean not 
improperly motivated distribute it in a way. And then who knows what the hell it would be 
10, 20, 30 or 40 years from now. I do know if it goes to the government, it basically reduces 
the national debt by that amount. I don’t think it changes whether they change the minimum 
wage laws or anything else. I just think a little figure changes, it’ll show up in the budget 
one day, “Received from Buffet, X,” and then some huge figure appears down below. I 
don’t think --I would prefer it be used privately, but that’s really up to the people of the 
United States to decide through their representatives. 
 
PANDEMIC RISK 
 
Becky Quick: This next question is for Agit and it comes from Professor Don Wunsch at the 
Missouri University of Science and Technology, who says, “Mr. Jain, what has COVID 19 
taught us about systemic and correlated risk? And is there anything that we will do 
differently from now on?” 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Ajit Jain: Yeah. In the insurance business, we often think about pandemic risk as one of the 
risk factors that we need to cope with in our business. Having said that, I think the big 
lesson for us having gone through what we’ve gone through recently is that while we were 
aware of the fact that pandemic risk is a risk factor, if was totally, totally underpriced by all 
of us in the industry. Several of us thought it’s an event that will happen, at most, once in a 
hundred years, and even then, those odds are pretty high. So I think the big lesson for us is 
to recalibrate and rethink about what the return time is for something like a pandemic risk. 
And separately, we haven’t yet done a good enough job as an industry, I’m saying in terms 
of correlating the risk and aggregating the risk and making sure we can deal with the 
aggregate numbers. 
 
For example, pandemic risk has obviously taken people’s lives, but then separately, a 
bunch of us used to write something called event cancellation or contingency policies, and 
in terms of pricing for the contingency policies, like the Olympics being canceled, NBC 
would buy insurance for their rights, which might suddenly be not worth much. And when 
pricing something like that, we would think in terms of earthquake and risk and more 
recently terrorism, but we would never factor something like what portion of the price 
should come from the pandemic exposure. So I think the industry will become a lot more 
sophisticated in terms of thinking through what is the impact of pandemic risk across the 
entire portfolio as opposed to it just being localized to one or two areas. 
 
Becky Quick: And I’m sorry, Don asked if anyone else on the stage wanted to comment 
after Agit on that same topic? 
 
Charlie Munger: I missed that. 
 
Becky Quick: He was just looking if anyone else on the stage wanted to comment on that. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, as Agit mentioned, people were throwing in, well, an event 
cancellation. I mean, lots of people buy insurance against the Olympics being canceled or 
the United States not participating. I mean, they try to think of all kinds of risks because 
they have had campaigns based upon all - so there’s a lot of event cancellation insurance, 
and it was probably underpriced, the implicit part of that premium that was attributable to a 
pandemic risk. I mean, Bill Gates gave a terrific talk at TED five or six years ago and 
people ignored it. And it’s very interesting because this isn’t the worst case, what we’ve 
seen. And yet it’s staggering in terms of what has happened.  And people that wrote 
insurance that they may have found out sometimes that they were covering things they 
didn’t want--didn’t even intend to cover. And maybe the insurance, they didn’t think they 
were buying. But nevertheless, after the event occurs, they get very inventive in coming 
after them. There are certain risks, too, that are just too big. The nuclear risk, for example, I 
mean the federal government very early on, they recognized that the private insurance 
industry, they can’t handle the risk involved -- the financial risk that would be involved in 
terms of a massive nuclear strike or something like that. 
 
So the pandemics, the wording will be much more careful in future policies on trying to 
define it very precisely. And incidentally, I mean, in the way the cases have come so far, in 
the United Kingdom, I mean, I think there was one particular insurer. I mean, the cases are 
coming down much tougher on insurers. In the United States, I mean, the policies were just 
written differently. You don’t get insurance against something you don’t buy against it for. 
And generally, the court decisions have come down favorable to insurers. And at Berkshire, 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
it just so happens, we are not a big, big player in commercial multiple peril, which might be 
where… It is not a huge factor for Berkshire. 
 
INSURANCE EXPOSURE FROM COVID-19 PANDEMIC 
 
Becky Quick: This follow up question is from Martin Devine. And he asked both Agit and 
Warren, what’s your best estimate of Berkshire’s insurance claim exposure from the 
COVID-19 pandemic? 
 
Ajit Jain: Well, in terms of reserves starting from last year to the end of the first quarter of 
this year, we have put up $1.6 billion and change in terms of reserves. Now, what that 
doesn’t take into account is some of the frequency benefit because of COVID-19 that 
results because of fewer accidents and Geico has had a huge tailwind because of that. But 
in terms of what the insurance operations collectively are going to be writing checks for, 
that number as of now is about $1.6 billion. And my guess is that will probably grow 
because if you look upon it, the industry as a whole has reserved, we reserved $1.6, as I 
mentioned. The industry as a whole has reserved about $25 to $30 billion for COVID-19 as 
of now. If you believe the pundits in the industry, they will tell you that number is probably 
going to be closer to a hundred billion. So there’s another about $70, $75 billion of COVID-
19 losses that need to flow through the insurance industry’s balance sheet and income 
statement. Our number, therefore, of 1.6 that we have as of now is going to be a lot, lot 
higher, but it’s not something that we cannot manage completely. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we will not be in this top five payers, my guess, of insurance claims, 
even though we’re… We write a much smaller amount of both life insurance and annuities, 
actually. In the end, we have more life insurance claims, but the annuities are not going to 
last. More people will have died that would have otherwise got payments under annuities. It 
cuts a lot of ways. It’s one of the great human catastrophes of all time, but it was not that 
big in insurance. I would say this, if the insurance industry thinks they’re going to lose a 
hundred billion dollars, the hundred billion ought to be up on their books. The idea of 
feeding in losses… you’ve got a liability. Our goal is to put up the liability when we think it’s 
happened. We should not be at 1.6 billion. I would say this. If we really think we’re going to 
have some proportional share of a hundred billion of it--but that’s enough said on that. 
 
RAILROAD CONSOLIDATION 
 
Becky Quick: This next question is for Greg, but also for Warren and Charlie. It’s from Blair 
Miller who asks, “What does the combination of Kansas City Southern with either Canadian 
Pacific or Canadian National mean to BNSF in terms of competition? Do you think the 
synergies of the merger will justify the multiple paid?” 
 
Greg Abel: Sure. It’s obviously a transaction we followed very closely with both Canadian 
National and Canadian Pacific bidding to purchase Kansas City Southern. Either of those 
companies acquiring Kansas City Southern will have an impact on BNSF. What they’re 
basically proposing is to create a north/south railway that goes from Canada into 
Mexico. We do have a strong presence in Mexico, not as strong as some of our 
competition, but we would feel competition there. We’ll follow that transaction very 
closely as it goes before the Surface Transportation Board. The standard that will be 
applied is that competition has to be protected or enhanced, so that’s our opportunity to 
protect our franchise on behalf of our customers. We move intermodal business both in and 
out of there on behalf of certain customers. We’ll want to protect the rights of our customers 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
there.  So we’ll be active in the approval process. But there’s no question, at the end it 
impacts our franchise. Warren. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, it’s not huge, but it affects both the Union Pacific and BNSF to a 
small degree, a relatively small degree. But that’s not really the worry of the Surface 
Transportation Board. Their job is to do what’s best for the shippers. In terms of the price 
that’s being paid, like I say, if you can borrow all the money for nothing, it doesn’t 
make much difference to people. This would not be being paid under a different 
interest rate environment. I mean, it’s very simple. There’s no magic to the Kansas City 
Southern. I think their deal with Mexico ends in 2047. It’s the number of carloads carried. I 
mean, it’s not going to change that much, but it is kind of interesting. There’s only two 
major Canadian, what they call Class I railroads, and there’s five in the United States. This 
will result in, essentially, three of the units being Canadian, four being U.S., which is not 
the way you normally think of the way the development of the railroad system would work in 
the United States. We’ve talked about it plenty and CPE, either Canadian Pacific, or 
Canadian National is very likely to get it. I think the Surface Transportation Board book 
voted four to one, didn’t they, the other day? Am I correct on that? 
 
Greg Abel: They voted on an initial trust structure that they had to approve for Canadian 
Pacific. That was a four-to-one vote, as you noted, Warren, so they’re moving forward with 
the evaluation of it. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. Normally railroad deals are very long, take a long time for them to 
evaluate. But in this case, I think they have two opposing trust proposals, and in effect, if 
they make a quick decision on which trust proposal that they allow, I don’t see they’ll allow 
two proposals exactly, so it may be a very accelerated decision. I don’t know. It’s up to the 
Surface Transportation Board to do what’s best for what their obligation is to the country to 
do. 
 
Becky Quick: There was a follow-up question on that. 
 
Warren Buffett: Sure. 
 
Becky Quick: Do you think the valuation that they’re paying is worth it? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, in a very, very mild way. I mean, everybody’s kind of played at 
making deals with different railroads ever since I’ve been in the railroad business. 
We’ve talked about it. When CP, when Hunter came after it… Was it Hunter that bid on CP 
that kind of led the way? We looked at buying CP. Everybody looks at everything. We 
would not pay this price. It implies a price for BNSF that’s even higher than what the UP 
is selling for. But it’s kind of play money to some degree, I mean, when interest rates are 
this low. I’m sure from the standpoint of both CP and CN, there’s only one K.C. Southern. 
They’re not going to get a chance to expand. They’re not going to buy us. They’re not going 
to buy the UP. The juices flow, and the prices go up. 
 
Charlie Munger: They’re buying with somebody else’s money. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. It’s somebody else’s money, and you’re going to retire in five or 10 
years. People are not going to remember what you paid, but they’re going to remember 
whether you built a larger system. The investment bankers are cheering you on at every 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
move. They’re just saying, “You could pay more.” They’re moving the figures around. 
The spreadsheets are out, and the fees are flowing. 
 
PRECISION CASTPARTS 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Asher Haft in Brooklyn who says --Asher has been 
a shareholder since 2006. He says that he appreciates your honesty and candidness when 
it comes to explaining costly errors you made. In this year’s Chairman letter, you discuss 
that you made a mistake in 2016 when calculating Precision Castparts’ average amount of 
future earnings, which resulted in Berkshire overpaying to acquire it. It appears that 
Precision’s earnings declined substantially in 2020 because of the pandemic and the effect 
of airline and travel industry. What calculations could you have made in 2016 that might’ve 
altered your decision to acquire it? Secondly, are the problems Precision is currently facing 
larger than the pandemic? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, Berkshire didn’t make the mistake. I made the mistake, incidentally. 
Anytime we look at buying a business, we’re evaluating the competitive strengths of the 
business, the price we have to pay, the management we got, everything. We didn’t make a 
mistake on the management, but in terms of the earning power on average--when Boeing 
has troubles with a Max, well, that’s a probability. I mean, anytime any customer is that big, 
I mean, all kinds of things can happen. We have seen some of those things happen, and 
therefore I paid too much in relation to average earnings. It’s a terrific company. I’m happy 
with the management and everything, but GE doesn’t need as many engines as we thought 
they’d need. They get into the power business and a variety of things. We knew they were 
in the businesses, but we did not think those businesses would necessarily be in something 
close to a depression when other businesses that we bought end up sometimes doing 
better than we think. We’ll continue making mistakes. I mean, I shouldn’t say we will, I will, 
but even these- 
 
Charlie Munger: The rest of us will help. 
 
Warren Buffett: We’ve got some wonderful deals and some terrible deals. The nice thing 
about it is, as I pointed out, that this doesn’t really apply in the case of Precision precisely, 
but when we’re disappointed in a business, it usually becomes a smaller and smaller 
percentage of our business just by the nature of things, because it isn’t going any place. 
When we got a successful business, like a GEICO or something of the sort… GEICO, 
they’re doing 15 times as much business as when we bought control in 1996… they 
become a proportionally much more important part of our mix. You really get -- through just 
natural forces, you get more of your money in the things that have developed more 
favorably than you thought. You actually end up getting a greater concentration in the ones 
that work out. It’s not like, as Charlie would say, it’s not like having children. I mean, the 
bad ones will cause you more problems. In the children of businesses, the small ones kind 
of… with the way we -- we started with three businesses, Charlie and I. Berkshire was 
textiles, Diversified Retailing was a department store, and trading stamps, Blue Chip 
business. Those were the three companies we put together. All three of the original 
businesses failed, which sort of gets me in terms of the people that are worried about don’t 
we know that coal is going to be phased out over time. Of course, we know coal’s going to 
be, but that doesn’t mean we’re going to be phased out over time. I mean, every business 
has some things to think about a lot that way. The biggest danger, they have that section in 
the perspectives called… what do they call that about certain- 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Greg Abel: Risk factors. 
 
Warren Buffett: … risk factors, yeah. The number one risk factor, you never see it. The 
number one risk factor is that this business gets the wrong management, and you get a guy 
or a woman in charge of it that they’re personable, the directors like them, they don’t know 
what they’re doing, but they know how to put on an appearance. That’s the biggest single 
danger that a business has, and that that person stays and runs it for 10 or 15 years, and 
either stays in the textile business, a department store business, and expands. I’ve looked 
at a lot of businesses and that’s what’s caused the number one problem. It isn’t the kind of 
thing where they list them all because the lawyers tell them to list them. 
 
CRYPTO CURRENCIES 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Ragu Boshwell, and it’s for both Warren and 
Charlie. Now that the crypto market overall is valued at $2 trillion, do you still consider 
cryptos as worthless artificial gold? 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, I knew there’d be a question on Bitcoin. I thought to myself, “Well, 
I’ve watched these politicians dodge questions all the time.” I always find it kind of 
disgusting when they do it. But the truth is, I’m going to dodge that question because we’ve 
probably got hundreds of thousands of people watching this that own Bitcoin, and we’ve got 
two people that are short. We’ve got a choice of making 400,000 people mad at us and 
unhappy and/or making two people happy. That’s just a dumb equation. I thought about it. 
We had a governor one time in Nebraska, a long time ago, but he would get a tough 
question, what do you think about property taxes or what should we do about schools? 
He’d look right at the person, and he’d say, “I’m all right on that one,” and he’d just walk off. 
Well, I’m all right on that one and maybe we’ll see how Charlie is. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, those who know me well are just waving the red flag at the bull. Of 
course, I hate the Bitcoin success and I don’t welcome a currency that’s so useful to 
kidnappers and extortionists and so forth, nor do I like just shuffling out a few extra 
billions and billions and billions of dollars to somebody who just invented a new 
financial product out of thin air. I think I should say, modestly, that I think the whole 
damn development is disgusting and contrary to the interests of civilization, and I’ll 
leave the criticism to others. 
 
Warren Buffett: I’m all right on that one. 
 
 
ENERGY PROPOSAL FOR TEXAS 
 
Becky Quick: The next series of questions are from James Hernandez. He has two 
questions, one for Ajit, one for Greg. They both concern Elon Musk. For Greg, this question 
is for you. Elon Musk has stated that Berkshire Hathaway’s energy proposal for Texas, 
spending more than $9 billion for new generating capacity, is wrong. Instead, Mr. Musk 
argues that load balancing using battery storage is the appropriate course of action. Can 
you explain why the BHE proposal is the better course of action for Governor Abbott and 
the State of Texas? Specifically, what amount of savings can the citizens of Texas expect 
above and beyond what Mr. Musk is proposing? 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Greg Abel: Sure. Obviously, there was a very unfortunate event in Texas in February, and it 
basically lasted four days. Many lives were lost. The economic damage was significant. 
Texas has highlighted that anywhere from 80 to $130 billion in incurred losses over that 
period of time. I think when you look at the power sector, it fundamentally let the citizens 
down. It didn’t perform as they expected, and then when it did perform, it was extremely 
expensive. They incurred billions and billions of dollars of energy costs versus a multiple of 
basically 10 times what they paid. They paid 10 times in energy costs over those four days 
what they paid in the past year, so a very substantial event for Texas. 
 
We’ve gone to Texas with what we believe is a good solution. We spent a lot of time pulling 
it together, understanding the fundamental issues around it. Our proposal is really based 
upon the fact that the health and welfare of Texans were at risk, and we needed to have, 
effectively, an insurance policy in place for them, that if they needed the power on very 
short notice, it would be able to be dispatched, and it would be there for the four days we’re 
actually proposing. It could be there for seven days. The fundamental concept of our 
proposal has always been, if there’s a better proposal that’s brought forward, we’ve 
accomplished our mission. We’ve just been really there to… It’s the best proposal or option 
we could come up with. Obviously, if Texas or Elon or someone else comes up with a 
better proposition, we’ve always said, “Texas, you should pursue it.” We strongly believe 
right now we have what remains is a very good proposal for Texas. It’ll continue to be 
discussed and evaluated.   
 
The big difference between a battery proposal and our proposal is that we will have power 
that can be generated continuously for seven consistent days. Where if you went to a 
battery solution, you may release that power that’s been stored for four hours, but we’re 
talking four days of a problem, not four hours. It’s just a completely different cost equation 
and solution. Very proud that our team brought forward what I thought was a very unique 
solution. We’ve worked hard with our suppliers and Peter Kiewit & Sons to put together 
what we believe is a firm cost that can also be delivered by November of ’23. Again, we put 
a firm date on. It won’t be ready next winter, unfortunately. It won’t be ready this summer, 
but it’s a valuable solution, and one that we hope at least leads to the right discussion and 
the right long-term solution for the state. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. We’re also willing to put up $4 billion that if we don’t deliver when we 
say we’re going to deliver, well, we’ll pay it as a penalty, basically. We went to Kiewit. We 
went to General Electric and said, How long can we get turbines for that? If you’re going to 
be prepared for 2023, you have to start at a point fairly soon and you have inflation going 
on. Kiewit’s not going to change things on us in a month. We don’t try to get the contracts 
all written out. They had a hundred people working on it. 
 
Greg Abel: Yeah, they had hundreds working on it. 
 
Warren Buffett: GE’s cooperative and everything, but it doesn’t mean we have the best 
solution. We just know what we can do. If anybody can do it faster, they can do it cheaper, 
whatever, that’s terrific, but they should have something to lose if they don’t do it. I mean, 
we will back our promise up by $4 billion, and we won’t have any rinky-dink clauses in there 
that if this happens or that happens, we don’t pay, but we won’t be able to do that a year 
from now. I mean, we can do it a year from now with the costs then, from what they are 
then, and then it’ll be a year further out. 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Texas is a terrific place to do business. We do a lot of business there. It’s where BHHS had 
its headquarters. It’s a great place. This was out of the blue, but one way or another, the 
nature of utility business is that you have to be prepared for something that probably isn’t 
going to happen. You don’t want to say, Well, it’s a one in 30-year event, and then people 
die. I mean, you want a margin of safety in it. We’ve got one solution and other people may 
have other solutions. We will cheer when a solution is reached of any kind, and we will 
cheer a little louder if it’s ours. 
 
POTENTIAL INSURANCE FOR SPACEX TO GO TO MARS 
 
Becky Quick: Ajit, your question from this gentlemen, suppose the hypothetical situation 
arises where Warren Buffett calls you on the phone to tell you that Elon Musk has 
contacted him about writing an insurance policy on his proposed mission to and 
subsequent colonization of Mars. Specifically, he wants insurance to insure a SpaceX 
heavy rocket capsule, payload, and human capital. Would you underwrite any portion of a 
venture like that? 
 
Ajit Jain: This is an easy one. No, thank you. I’ll pass. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I would say it would depend on the premium, and I would say that I 
would probably have a somewhat different rate if Elon was on board or not on board. I 
mean, it makes a difference, I mean, if somebody is asking you to insure something, that’s 
called getting skin in the game. 
 
Ajit Jain: In general, I would be very concerned about writing an insurance policy where 
Elon Musk is on the other side. 
 
Becky Quick: Okay. 
 
Warren Buffett: Tell Elon to call me and send up Ajit. 
 
HIGH MARGIN BUSINESSES 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Michael Lu from California. This is for both Warren 
and Charlie. In your shareholder letter, you mentioned that the best investment results 
come from the companies that require minimum assets to conduct high-margin businesses. 
In today’s world many of these companies tend to be software-driven businesses. While 
Berkshire has avoided investing in high-growth technology companies in the past, this 
appears to be slowly changing with your investments in Apple and Snowflake. As 
shareholders, should we expect that high-margin businesses will begin to constitute a 
larger proportion of Berkshire’s investment portfolio over time, particularly as Todd and Ted 
take on larger roles in the investment decision process? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, we’ve always known that the green business is the one that 
takes very little capital and grows a lot, and Apple and Google and Microsoft and 
Facebook are terrific examples of that. I mean, Apple has $37 billion in property, 
plant, equipment. Berkshire has 170 billion or something like that, and they’re going 
to make a lot more money than we do. They’re in a better business. It’s a much better 
business than we have, and Microsoft’s business is a way better business than we 
have. Google’s business is a way better business. We’ve known that a long time.  

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
We found that out with See’s candy in 1972. I mean, See’s candy just doesn’t require that 
much capital. It has, obviously, a couple of manufacturing plants. They call them kitchens, 
but it doesn’t have big inventories, except seasonally for a short period. It doesn’t have a 
lot of receivables. Those are the kinds of businesses, they’re the best businesses, but they 
command the best prices, too. There aren’t that many of them, and they don’t always stay 
that way. 
 
We’re looking for them all the time. We’ve got a few that are pretty darn good, but we 
don’t have anything as big as the big guy, but that’s what everybody’s looking for. That’s 
what capitalism is about, people getting a return on capital. The way you get it is 
having something that doesn’t take too much capital. I mean, if you have to really put 
out tons and tons of capital… Utility business is that way. It’s not a super high-return 
business. You just have to put out a lot of capital. You get a return on that capital, 
but you don’t get fabulous returns. You don’t get Google-like returns or anything 
remotely close to it. We’re proposing a return in the transaction with the proposition with 
Texas. I think it’s 9.3%, isn’t it? 
 
Greg Abel: Yeah, 9.3. 
 
Warren Buffett: If you look at the return on most American businesses on net tangible 
assets, it’s a lot higher than 9.3, but they aren’t utility businesses either. 
 
Becky Quick: Charlie, did you want to add anything to that? 
 
Charlie Munger: Not a thing. 
 
TED AND TODD 
 
Becky Quick: This question is from Ryan Fusaro in New York City, who says, “Todd and 
Ted have taken on increased responsibility at Berkshire over the years, managing larger 
pools of capital, including the company’s sizable Apple holdings, participating in M&A 
strategy, and even overseeing the company’s now shuttered healthcare partnership with 
Amazon and J.P. Morgan. We are grateful for their efforts, but Todd and Ted are still not 
made available to shareholders at the annual meeting each year. Given their growing 
importance to the firm, can you discuss this policy and whether we can expect to hear from 
them more in the coming years? 
 
Warren Buffett: They’re both absolutely terrific, and that’s one reason I don’t want people 
quizzing them on stocks. They are assets of Berkshire. There’s no reason for them to be 
out educating other people on how to compete with us. It always seemed so silly that 
people expect it. They don’t expect Merck or Pfizer or something to tell them exactly what 
their scientists are working on and where they stand or where the failures have been so 
they can eliminate those. If you’ve got talent that knows how to evaluate businesses, and 
those two fellows have gone far beyond that - they’re terrific assets. They love Berkshire 
and they work extraordinary hours, but we don’t really want them going around with people 
asking them questions about why you like this industry better than that industry or anything 
of the sort. 
 
 
 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
INVESTING IN CHINA 
 
Becky Quick: This question is for Charlie. It comes from Steven Tedder in Atlanta. He’s 
been a Berkshire shareholder for 10 years and says, “You and your friend, Li Lu, have 
been very optimistic with respect to investing opportunities in China. BYD has performed 
spectacularly for Berkshire since its initial purchase in 2008 and is currently valued at $5.8 
billion. The Daily Journal recently bought a large position in Alibaba after founder, Jack Ma, 
had been reprimanded by the Chinese Communist Party and Ma’s other company, Ant, was 
not allowed to proceed with its IPO. What are your current thoughts on China and whether 
the Communist leaders will allow businesses with strong leadership to flourish in decades 
to come?” 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, I think that the Chinese government will allow businesses to flourish. 
It was one of the most remarkable things that ever happened in the history of the world 
when a bunch of committed Communists just looked at the prosperity of places like 
Singapore and said, The hell with this. We’re not going to stay here in poverty. We’re going 
to copy what works. They changed communism. They just accepted Adam Smith and 
added it to their Communism. Now we have Communism with Chinese characteristics, 
which is China with a free market with a bunch of millionaires and so forth. They made that 
shift. They deserve a lot of credit. Warren and I are not quite as good at that, at changing 
our minds, in many cases. 
 
That was a remarkable change coming from such a place. Of course, it’s worked like 
gangbusters. They’ve had enormous growth in the average income of the average Chinese. 
They’ve lifted 800 million people out of poverty fast. There was never anything like it in the 
history of the world, so my hat is off to the Chinese. I think they will continue to allow 
people to make money. They’ve learned it works. I love what the guy said in the first place, 
“I don’t care whether the cat is black and white, as long as it catches mice.” That’s my kind 
of talk. 
 
Warren Buffett: In that list of the 20 most valuable companies, three are Chinese. Now, if 
you’re looking out 30 years, probably things will be changing. My guess is more, but I don’t 
think it will top the United States, but who knows? It’s amazing what has been 
accomplished. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah, really amazing. 
 
Warren Buffett: They found what works. I mean, there’s nothing like finding something that 
works in order to sort of reinforce ideas over time. We’ll see what happens, but I would bet 
there will be more than three, but I will bet the United States has more than China has, too. 
 
MACRO ECONOMIC PREDICTIONS 
 
Becky Quick: This one comes from Tim Medley in Jackson, Mississippi, who’s been a 
Berkshire shareholder since 1987. He writes, “On March 19th, respected economist Larry 
Summers, the former president of Harvard University and the former Secretary of the 
Treasury under President Obama, was critical of President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion 
American Rescue Stimulus Plan. In an interview with Bloomberg Television he said, ‘I am 
much more worried that we will have more inflation or that we will have a pretty dramatic 
fiscal monetary collision. This goes way beyond what is necessary.’ He said also, ‘This is 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
the least responsible macro economic policy we’ve had in the last 40 years.'” Your 
thoughts? 
 
Warren Buffett: You are asking me on that? 
 
Becky Quick: He didn’t write to who, so I guess anybody on the stage. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I would say that Larry has been reading his uncle’s book, which was 
Paul Samuelson. Larry is a very, very, very smart fellow. He’s laying out possibilities which 
actually now have probably been voiced a little more even since that March 19th, whatever 
date it was, that he made that. You can’t just do one thing in economics. If we really could 
shovel out more and more debt and the carrying cost turned out to be something… People 
thought Japan couldn’t do what they’ve done. It used to be called the Widow Maker around 
Solomon and people were shorting Japanese bonds. The answer is we don’t know, but 
Larry’s view is an important view. It’s just as good as probably the view on the other side 
might be. 
 
We don’t know what happens from the present policies. We do know, as Jay Powell 
said the other day, the idea that a hundred percent of GDP was some terribly dangerous 
level in terms of debt, that doesn’t really make a whole lot of sense now. That used to be 
kind of accepted wisdom. We’ve learned a lot of things we thought before weren’t true, but 
what we haven’t learned yet is whether what we’re doing now is true. The best thing to do 
is recognize you don’t know and proceed in a way where you get a decent result, no 
matter what happens. That’s what we try and do at Berkshire Hathaway. We do not 
think we can make money by making macro economic predictions. We do think we 
can be pretty darn sure we will get a reasonable result under policies that will not maximize 
results, if we could do that sort of thing. 
 
Charlie Munger: It’s not at all clear whether Larry is right or wrong 
. 
Warren Buffett: He’s a smart man, though. 
 
Charlie Munger: He is a smart man. It’s courageous of him raising it, too. He’s practically 
the only one talking that way, which I admire, by the way. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. It guarantees he won’t get a position in the administration. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yes. Well, that’s one of the reasons I admire him, not that there’s anything 
wrong with having a position in the administration, but I think people who kind of tell it the 
way they think it is, I like it. 
 
BANKING INDUSTRY 
 
Becky Quick: This question circles back to banking, which you touched on earlier, but 
Jerome Bernard from Switzerland writes, “Could you please explain why you decided to exit 
most of your bank stocks in 2020 except for Bank of America? What’s your view on the 
future of the banking industry? 
 
Warren Buffett: I like banks, generally. I just didn’t like the proportion we had in it compared 
to the possible risk at least, if we got bad results that so far we haven’t gotten. We were 
over 10% of Bank of America. It’s a real pain in the neck, both to the bank, more the banks 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
than to us if we go over 10%. There’s just a whole lot of -- I like Bank of America and I like 
Brian Moynihan very much. I like the banking business fine. We took that up, but we took 
the overall bank position down. We didn’t want to go above 10 in any of the others, and we 
did want to increase the B of A position, but we overall didn’t want as much in banks as we 
had. 
 
The banking business is way better than it was in the United States 10 or 15 years ago. 
The banking business around the world, various places, is what might worry me, but our 
banks are in far, far better shape than 10 or 15 years ago. But when things froze for a short 
period of time, the biggest thing the banks had going for them is that the Federal Reserve 
was behind them. The Federal Reserve, they’re not behind Berkshire. It’s up to us to take 
care of ourselves. 
 
VERIZON 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Matt Y. in Los Angeles. You recently purchased a 
large stake in Verizon.  For educational purposes, could you please explain your thinking 
behind this investment? In general, many people see telecoms as dumb pipes that have to 
spend heavily on capex building out the 5G infrastructure, only for the other tech 
companies to take advantage and capture most of the value created from the infrastructure, 
like Facebook, Uber, Airbnb, and DoorDash. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I think he’s analyzed the situation well, but we are not in the business 
of explaining why we own the stock, which we either buy more of or sell or who knows 
what. So, he’s on his own, but he sounds like he’s very capable of thinking it through very 
well himself. 
 
ANTI-TRUST REGULATIONS 
 
Becky Quick: Slavin Vucalbrought writes in, Senator Josh Hawley recently unveiled a new 
antitrust proposal that would ban mergers and acquisitions by firms with a market 
capitalization over 100 billion dollars. While this legislation is unlikely to go through, 
increasing antitrust regulation could represent a material risk for Berkshire. Has Berkshire’s 
board already discussed what would happen to the company over the long-term if Berkshire 
was to be prevented from acquiring controlled businesses? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, we don’t discuss that as a specific, but the board is very, very, very 
familiar with what Berkshire does, why they do it, how we think in deploying capital. 
Everybody knows that if you change the antitrust laws, it can change things for Berkshire. If 
you change the tax laws, it can change things for Berkshire. There’s a lot of things and we 
could spend hours discussing them, but in the end, is it a 22.3% risk that something 
changes? It’s a good way to fill the time at board meetings and if you’re getting 3 or 
$400,000 a year as a board director, you might want to spend your time doing that. But we 
really don’t focus on that. 
 
The main thing about Berkshire is how they preserve the culture, how they make sure that 
if you get the wrong person as the CEO, you can do something about it. That’s the biggest 
risk a board has is if you pick the wrong CEO and I’ve been on 20 boards, and this 
happened more than once. Sometimes it’s a terrible problem to get rid of them. Years go 
by. If a dissident comes in, it’s one thing, but if you just sit there and you collect your 3 or 
$400,000 a year, and the chief executive keeps proposing you’ll get an increase from time 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
to time -- it’s worse yet if he’s a nice person doing his best. But we’re not going to spend a 
lot of time. We may do it on a personal basis, but we’re not going to take a lot of people. 
We want them to know more about what’s going on with BNSF and how Katie’s doing, and 
whether the KCS thing can endure in a material way and so on. And we really don’t, except 
maybe on a private side thing, we don’t start talking about what the effects will be in 2050 if 
this projection or that projection is met. Charlie? 
 
Charlie Munger: Nothing to add. 
 
BERKSHIRE’S ABILITY TO ASSUME RISK 
 
Becky Quick: This question was sent in by Don Graham during the meeting, based on 
something you said earlier today, and he says, why does Warren say Berkshire’s ability to 
assume enormous risk quickly is a less valuable asset than it used to be? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, because the demand is less, basically on that. If you take a period 
like happened after 9-11, I remember, I may be wrong in the details, but Cathay Pacific, for 
example, they couldn’t land in Hong Kong as I remember, unless they had an insurance 
policy by Monday of the following week. Well, we can do it. Ajit calls me up and he thinks of 
a price and I think of a price. But we can do it. We can take the loss if it happens. They 
called us on the Sears Tower I think back then, after that. They didn’t know whether bombs 
might be placed all over. And they wanted more insurance all of a sudden and we gave 
them a price. 
 
So that sort of an environment hasn’t really persisted. There were times, I think, perhaps at 
AIG, when Hank Greenberg was there, he would do the same thing, but there weren’t 10 or 
20 people. And they needed big limits in some cases, and we were good for it. And they 
knew that if they bought the insurance and it had happened, we’d write a check and it 
would clear. Ajit, he might have something. 
 
Ajit Jain: In addition to the demand side, the supply side has become a lot more 
competitive as well. A lot of people who can put big limits, not as much as we do, but they 
can syndicate a program and put up a billion dollars very easily. So that competitive 
advantage we had, we still have, but it’s no longer as big a deal as it used to be. 
 
KRAFT-HEINZ 
Becky Quick: This question comes from a shareholder in Scotland who wants to know 
Warren, Charlie, and Greg’s views on how Kraft Heinz has performed over the last 12 
months compared to the disappointing performance pre-COVID. And what are your current 
and longer-term views on Kraft Heinz prospects? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I think that Greg’s on the board, so I don’t know that we’re in a 
position to give advice on Kraft Heinz. We entered, in effect, a semi-formal partnership with 
3G many years ago when it was just a Heinz deal and then went on to acquire Kraft with 
our partners and they’ve done more than -- they hold up their share of everything. We do 
what we said we would do going in, which is to be a financial partner, and they’re more of 
the operating partner, although we participate to a degree in any big decisions and they 
would listen to us, but we’re not making any-- in terms of Kraft Heinz stock, that’s up to 
somebody else to evaluate. 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Greg Abel:  The only thing I would add, Warren, is I think we’re very comfortable with the 
fact that they put a strong manager in place in Miguel and he’s put a very good team in 
place at Kraft Heinz. So we’re pleased with the leadership and management team in place. 
They’re very focused on how they’re executing as they’ve gone forward and rationalizing 
their capital structure and managing down their debt structure. So, we are very pleased 
with the path forward with the existing management team. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. We feel better about the --this is a more general subject, but one of 
the subjects I might write about in one of the future annual reports is the problems caused 
by the myths that people have about their own organization. And I’ve seen that so many 
times in various forms. And to some extent, the problem has become accentuated in the 
last 20 or 30 years because the CEO often works with the investor relations and they say, 
Well, we have to have constant contact with the analysts’ community. And of course, so 
they go on every couple of months and they repeat certain things about their company, and 
it becomes part of, sort of the catechism. And nobody’s going to go on two months after the 
CEO has said one thing and say, Well, actually, that really isn’t the way. They’re not going 
to contradict themselves or change course. 
 
So, if you get these myths and they can occur in a lot of different ways. I can give a lot of 
examples, which I won’t do. As I tell my friends in corporate America, I’m not going to 
squeal on them, but there’s a lot of mythology that gets handed down from one CEO to the 
next. Can the succeeding CEO say the guy that picked him was on the wrong course or 
he’s been telling you something that isn’t really quite true? He can’t do it. And then he 
starts repeating it and it leads to enormous errors, but it’s hard to tell the story without 
giving examples and I don’t like to give examples. So, we’ll see when I write about it 
sometime. Charlie, you probably have some thoughts. He’s had a ringside seat at a lot of--
he’s been on boards that I haven’t been on. And it doesn’t just extend the business. It goes 
beyond that, in education and a lot of areas. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, what’s really interesting is the way you prattle out all the time. You’re 
pounding back in, even if it’s wrong. And so one of my favorite remarks in the history of 
human remarks was by Sir Cedric Hardwicke, who is a great British actor. And he said, “I 
have been a great actor for so long that I no longer know what I truly think on any subject.” 
And I think that happens to a lot of people and it happens to virtually every politician. 
 
Warren Buffett: And it gets embedded in corporate – 
 
Charlie Munger:  It gets embedded in corporate. 
 
Warren Buffett: And the trouble is now the CEO speak out so often, so if they’ve got some 
crazy thing that they’re saying about their company and they keep repeating it, the 
subordinates aren’t going to contradict it, and, Charlie, they just believe it after a while. And 
it’s dangerous. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. And of course, the young people get these ideas after their liberal 
education. They think that God has given them direct insights. And they’re just as crazy as 
the politicians. 
 
Warren Buffett: Now, there’s some old people that have it ,too. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, the old people are already crazy. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Warren Buffett: They’re going to die sooner.  
 
Charlie Munger: We have our old insanities. The new insanities the young get. 
 
HAVEN 
 
Becky Quick: All right. This question comes from Bill Begley, who said, could you tell us 
what happened to the joint venture between Berkshire, JP Morgan and Amazon to 
investigate what could be done about the current state of medical healthcare in the United 
States? The only item I read was that it was disbanded. Do you have any lessons to be 
learned from your effort? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, we learned a lot about the difficulty of changing around an industry 
that is 17% of GDP and we accomplished a lesser objective, which was probably more 
important to us even than either JP Morgan or to Amazon. Because we knew less about 
our own system than they did. They knew, they were more centralized operations. So we 
got some benefits in the sense that we looked at 60 or 70 different operations we had 
presently. And that’s one case where a certain amount of centralization, at least in certain 
aspects of it, can save real money. We found inefficiencies and we probably saved more 
than the other two partners because they knew their situation better. We found some dumb 
things we were doing. So we got our money’s worth. 
 
But in terms of the big picture of changing something that so many people have a vested 
interest in doing, and there’s one additional factor to it, which is really interesting, there’s 
an ingenious aspect to it and it goes back to a fellow named, which didn’t have any direct 
connection, but Beardsley Rommel, and nobody’s ever heard of Beardsley Rommel.  
Beardsley Rommel in 1941 came up with the idea of the withholding tax. So people, 
instead of April 15th having to write a check and thinking about how much they hated their 
politicians and hated the government and everything else, they actually looked at it as kind 
of a Christmas club and there were overpayments involved and they actually got a check 
when the final payment came. 
 
So when you aren’t writing the check yourself, you may know that the health benefit from 
your company is worth $10,000 a year to you or $15,000 and may cost them that much – it 
may cost the company that much, but you don’t see it. The company pays it. And most of 
the people in that waiting room sitting next to me when --they are not sitting there thinking 
about whether I can afford to do this or what’s this going to do, they’re generally under 
some kind of a plan, not always, obviously, but they don’t think that if the company wasn’t 
paying them that they could pay them that in additional compensation. But of course, the 
weird system is the company gets a deduction if they pay it, but if you pay it yourself on a 
policy, I don’t believe you get a deduction. So it’s something that most of the people are not 
seeing as a cost to them. And they like that pretty well. 
 
Charlie Munger: No kidding. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. Well, but that’s true. The federal income tax, it was an act of genius 
from the standpoint of the government to go to a withholding system. And if you didn’t-- just 
think of how many people on April 15th would have to sit down and write a pretty good-
sized check and they’d be mad. They wouldn’t like it and they don’t feel it now. So that’s an 
obvious point, but you also, people like their doctor in general. And they don’t like the fact 
that it’s 17% of GDP, but one it’s just kind of an amorphous sort of thing. And the other is 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
very, very real to them. And the most prestigious people in the community are on the 
hospital boards and a lot of people are fairly happy with the system. So, we did not make 
inroads on that. And we are paying 17% of GDP for healthcare. And no major country is 
more than 11%. And in the pandemic, we’ve had a death rate, or a death total as a 
percentage of population, that’s way higher than the rest of the world, not every single 
country, but way higher. So, we’ve laid out more money and gotten a poorer result in terms 
of this particular pandemic in terms of deaths per capita. Now that may not turn out to be 
the- 
 
Charlie Munger: Oh, Warren, even though you shot and missed, you were at least shooting 
at an elephant. The cost of healthcare in Singapore is 20% of what it is in the United States 
and their medical system works better. So you were shooting at a huge elephant, but as 
you found out, it’s very hard for people to get very enthusiastic about losing part of their 
income. 
 
Warren Buffett: No. I said, we were fighting a tapeworm. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. 
 
Warren Buffett: And the economy and the tapeworm won. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. The tapeworm won. Wonderful phrase. The tapeworm… I’ll have to 
copy that. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, it wasn’t the phrase we were looking for. 
 
BERKSHIRE’S SIZE 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes in from Mark Blakely in Tulsa. This is for Warren and 
Charlie. When we discuss Berkshire, we often focus on the insurance operations and the 
largest non-insurance businesses, the Redwoods, as you mentioned in 2019. However, 
Berkshire owns a large number of subsidiary businesses, most of which are never 
mentioned. Is there a point at which Berkshire becomes too large to manage? And should 
we have any concern over the lack of information for most of Berkshire’s companies? Is 
there a time that could come when Berkshire is too large and complex? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, it’s too large to do certain things, that’s for sure. We can’t spend our 
time looking for $100 million acquisitions. But we have a wonderful company in Fort Worth 
and we had a marvelous man running it and he died recently, but he ran it. He sold it to me 
15 years ago and he just basically ran it. And I couldn’t find my way to the company. We’ve 
got this terrific company that makes recreational vehicles, the Elkhart based in Indiana. And 
we bought it 15 years ago. I’ve never been there. Maybe there’s some guy in a closet just 
making up numbers to send to me every month. But I feel I understand the business pretty 
well. I remember seeing it and the fellow that runs it likes running it, and he likes me 
keeping my nose out of it. 
 
He’ll let Greg in a little more than he’ll let me, but we’ve got a system that will work with 
wonderful businesses and wonderful managers. And it’s up to us to find them, but it’s also 
up to us to nurture them when we find them. And if you’ll get somebody like Paul Andrews 
who ran TTI and who built it from nothing, absolutely nothing, nobody ever heard of him. 
The earnings octupled during the period that he ran it for us. And he was happy. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Employees were happy. He was a wonderful man. We were happy. And I would call him at 
the end of the year and I’d say, Paul, you’re shooting the lights out on everything, you 
should take a raise or a bonus. He’d say, “Well, we’ll talk about that next year, Warren.” He 
just loved the business. I love Berkshire. He loved the business. And I wasn’t going to add 
anything by having him fill out a bunch of reports about how much he’s using in the way of 
carbon or anything. It’s ridiculous to think of a guy like Paul Andrews behaving in an 
antisocial manner or anything of the sort. And we’d love to have more of those. 
 
Obviously, we get bigger, they get harder to buy, but we’ve got a number in place. And I 
don’t think we bought our last one over time, but I certainly don’t see anything in the near 
future at all. But we’re intensifying our interest a little bit in the ones we have by 
repurchasing shares. So our shareholders own more of those companies every year, 
assuming we’re repurchasing shares, which is price sensitive. Charlie? 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. I don’t think we’re getting too big to manage because we’re 
different from practically every other big corporation in the United States in that we 
are so excessively decentralized. We have decentralized so much, and we have so 
much authority in the subsidiaries that we can keep doing it for a long, long time, as 
long as it keeps working. And I would say so far that our decentralization has caused 
more benefits than defects, but nobody seems to copy us. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, that’s absolutely true. But I would say this, decentralization won’t 
work unless you have the right kind of culture accompanying it. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah, but we do. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we do. 
  
Charlie Munger: And Greg Abel will keep the culture. 
 
Warren Buffett: If we had a culture of people who were trying to make a lot of money for 
themselves in the next five years at the top, it would not have worked. 
 
Charlie Munger: No, of course not. And the culture is part of it, but assuming we keep the 
culture, it can go on for quite a ways. 
 
Warren Buffett: For a long, long time. 
 
Charlie Munger: Long, long time. I think it amazes everybody. And by the way, the Roman 
Empire worked as long as it did because it was so decentralized. 
 
Warren Buffett: As Charlie says to me, you won’t know. 
 
READING AND INVESTMENT DECISIONS 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Kevin Young, it’s for Ajit and Greg. Warren spends 
his days reading and his literature of choice is annual reports. How do each of you spend 
your days? What do you read and how do you review investment decisions? 
 
Ajit Jain: Well, in my job, I spend a lot of my time reading deals that brokers and people 
send us, reading what they’re proposing, trying to analyze them, having a point of view, 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
whether it is something that is of interest to us or not. I might add, I do not spend a lot of 
time reading annual reports because I’m not in the stock picking business per se, but in 
terms of keeping track of what’s going on in the insurance business, that’s what 90% of my 
reading is all about. Greg. 
 
Greg Abel: So generally in a day, what I’m going to focus on when I’m reading is really 
around our businesses, what industries they’re in, I’m trying to understand what our 
competitors are doing, what’s the fundamental risks around those businesses, how they’re 
going to get disrupted. And then it always comes back to, are we allocating our capital 
properly in those businesses relative to the risks we’re seeing both in our business and in 
the industry. So a lot of time spent on that. And as that knowledge is built, it’s sharing it 
back and forth with our management teams of those relevant subsidiaries and sort of fine 
tuning it is really the approach. 
 
Warren Buffett: Both of these fellows can absorb information to an extraordinary degree. 
For one thing, they’re terribly interested in it. And it’s theirs. So I’m amazed at both of them, 
the degree which they just sort of know everything. But they enjoy it. They’re not thinking 
about whether they’ll get the next job that opens up at some huge place or anything like 
that. Nobody leaves us, basically, the ones we want. But you’ve really got to kind of be in 
love with your business. And that makes a huge difference. And that means that we’ve got 
to have the conditions that allow that love to flourish and it wouldn’t flourish with many 
organizations. 
 
ROBINHOOD 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Robert Miles in Nebraska. The trading apps. What 
do you think about Robinhood and other trading apps or FinTech companies enabling all 
ages and experience to participate in the stock market? 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I’m looking forward to reading the S1 on Robinhood- that’s a big thing 
you file with the SEC when you are going to be offering securities. It’s become a very 
significant part of the casino aspect, of the casino group that has joined into the 
stock market in the last year, year and a half. And I do want to say, I’m concerned about 
how they handle the source of income when they say that they don’t charge the customer 
anything. It’ll just be interesting to watch how they describe it. But they have attracted, 
maybe set out to attract, but they have attracted, I think I read where 12 or 13% of their 
casino participants were dealing in puts and calls. I looked up on Apple, the number of 
seven-day calls and 14 day calls outstanding. I’m sure a lot of that is coming through 
Robinhood and that’s a bunch of people writing-- they’re gambling on the price of Apple 
over the next seven days or 14 days. There’s nothing illegal about it. There’s nothing 
immoral. 
 
But I don’t think you would build a society around people doing it. If a group of us 
landed on a desert island, we knew that we’d never be rescued, and I was one of the 
groups and I said, Well, I’ll set up the exchange and I’ll trade our corn futures and 
everything around it. I think the degree to which a very rich society can reward people who 
know how to take advantage essentially of the gambling instincts of, not only the American 
public, worldwide public, it’s not the most admirable part of the accomplishment. But I think 
what America has accomplished is pretty admirable overall. And I think actually, American 
corporations have turned out to be a wonderful place for people to put their money and 
save, but they also make terrific gambling chips. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
And, if you cater to those gambling chips, when people have money in their pocket for the 
first time, and you tell them they can make 30 or 40 or 50 trades a day, and you’re not 
charging them any commission, but you’re selling their order flow or whatever, I hope we 
don’t have more of it. I’ll put it that way. And I will be interested in reading the perspectives. 
Charlie. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, that is really waving the red flag at the bull. I think it’s just God 
awful that something like that would draw investments from civilized men and decent 
citizens. It’s deeply wrong. We don’t want to make our money selling things that are 
bad for people. 
 
Warren Buffett: But we’ve got the states doing it with the lottery. 
 
Charlie Munger: No, but that’s bad, too. 
 
Warren Buffett: I understand but- 
 
Charlie Munger: That’s very bad. That’s one of the things that’s wrong with it. It’s getting 
respectable to do these things. The states are just as bad as Robinhood. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, in a sense they’re worse. They’re really taxing hope. 
 
Charlie Munger: I know. I know. 
 
Warren Buffett: They’re taxing hope. 
 
Charlie Munger: Not only that- 
 
Warren Buffett: And they don’t get much in the way of taxes from me or Charlie. 
 
Charlie Munger: The states in America replaced the mafia as the proprietor of the numbers 
game. That’s what happened. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yep. 
 
Charlie Munger: They pushed the mafia aside and said, That’s our business, not yours. 
Doesn’t make me proud of my government. 
 
Warren Buffett: When I was a kid, my dad was in Congress, they had a numbers runner in 
the house office building, actually. 
 
INFLATION 
 
Becky Quick: I will ask this question from Chris Freed from Philadelphia, and whoever 
wants to take this on stage, from raw material purchases by Berkshire subsidiaries, are you 
seeing signs of inflation beginning to increase? 
 
Warren Buffett: Let me answer that and Greg can give more -- we’re seeing very 
substantial inflation. It’s very interesting. We’re raising prices. People are raising 
prices to us, and it’s being accepted. Take home building. We’ve got nine home builders 
in addition to our manufactured housing operation, which is the largest in the country. So 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
we really do a lot of housing. The costs are just up, up, up. Steel costs, just every day 
they’re going up. And there hasn’t yet been --because the wage stuff follows. The UAW 
writes a three-year contract, we’ve got a three-year contract, but if you’re buying steel at 
General Motors or someplace, you’re paying more every day. So it’s an economy really, 
it’s red hot. And we weren’t expecting it. 
 
All our companies, they thought when they were allowed to go back to work for various 
operations- we closed the furniture stores. I mentioned they were closed for six weeks or 
so on average, and they didn’t know what was going to happen when they opened up. They 
can’t stop people from buying things and we can’t deliver them. And they said, Well, that’s 
okay, because nobody else can deliver them either and we’ll wait for three months or 
something. So the backlog grows. And then we thought it would end when the $600 
payments ended, I think, around August of last year. It just kept going and it keeps going 
and it keeps going, and it keeps going. I get the figures every week, I call or they call me, 
and we go over day by day what happened at three different stores in Chicago and Kansas 
City and Dallas. And it just won’t stop. People have money in their pocket and they pay 
the higher prices. When carpet prices go up in a month or two, they announced a price 
increase for April, our costs are going up. The supply chain is all screwed up for all 
kinds of people, but it’s almost a buying frenzy, except certain areas you can’t buy 
in. You really can’t buy international air travel. 
 
So the money is being diverted from a piece of the economy into the rest. And everybody’s 
got more cash in their pocket, except for meanwhile it’s a terrible situation for a great 
percentage of the people. This suit, I haven’t worn a suit for a year practically and that 
means that the dry cleaner just went out of business. I mean, nobody’s bringing in suits to 
get dry cleaned, and nobody’s bringing in white shirts. A place where my wife goes… The 
small business person, if you didn’t have takeout and delivery services for restaurants, you 
got killed. On the other hand, if you’ve got takeout facilities, same source sales, Dairy 
Queen are up a whole lot and they adapted. But it is not a price sensitive economy right 
now in the least. And I don’t know exactly how one shows up in different price indices, but 
there’s more inflation going on-- quite a bit more inflation going on than people would have 
anticipated just six months ago or thereabouts. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. And there’s one very intelligent man who thinks it’s dangerous and 
that’s just the start. 
 
Warren Buffett: Greg, you probably are in a good position to comment. 
 
Greg Abel: Warren, I think you touched on it, when we look at steel prices, timber 
prices, any petroleum input, fundamentally there’s pressure on those raw materials. I 
do think something you’ve touched on, Warren, and it goes really back to the raw materials. 
There’s a scarcity of product right now of certain raw materials. It’s impacting price 
and the ability to deliver the end product. But that scarcity factor is also real out there 
right now as our businesses address that challenge. And it may be some of that’s 
contributed or arisen from the storm we previously discussed in Texas. When you take 
down that many petrochemical plants in one state that the rest of the country is very 
dependent upon it, we’re seeing it flow through, both on price, but overall in scarcity of 
product, which obviously go together. But there’s challenges, that’s for sure. 
 
 
 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
QUANTITATIVE INVESTING 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from BJ Coralla. What do you think of Quants? Jim 
Simons Medallion Fund has done 39% net of fees for three decades, which proves that it 
works. Will you consider hiring a Quant Lieutenant in Berkshire to work alongside with Ted 
or Todd. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, I’ll say no to the second part and I’ll let Charlie handle the first part. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, that’s rather interesting. The Quant fund did fabulously on the short-
term trading. They found little algorithms that worked to make them add predictive value. 
And as long as they kept working, just kept doing it, as long as the money kept coming in. 
When they got to using the same system, just to finding some little algorithm and trying to 
do it mechanically for long-term stock predictions, the record was not nearly as good. And 
in the short-term stuff, they found that if they tried to do it too much, they destroyed their 
own advantage. So there was a limit on the amount they could make. 
 
Warren Buffett: But they were very, very smart. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yes, they got very rich. 
 
Warren Buffett: And very, very smart. 
 
Charlie Munger: Very smart and very rich, yes. And very high grade, by the way. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. 
 
Charlie Munger: Jim Simons. 
 
Warren Buffett: But we’re not trying to make money trading stocks. The answer, we don’t 
think we know how to do it. If we knew how to make a lot more money trading stocks, we’d 
probably be trading stocks, too, but we don’t know how to do it, and we really don’t trust 
anybody else to do it for us. That simple. 
 
 
BUY AND HOLD INVESTING 
 
Becky Quick: This question comes from Richard Warner. Mr. Buffett has espoused for 
decades the philosophy of buy and hold or hold forever was too short of a time period. Is it 
a misperception on my part or has his philosophy changed? It seems to be a much greater 
turnover in the equity portfolio lately. 
 
Warren Buffett:I don’t think there’s that much turnover. 
 
Charlie Munger: But there’s too much. 
 
Warren Buffett: What? 
 
Charlie Munger: There’s way too much. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Charlie Munger: It’s still too much. It’s the same amount. 
 
Warren Buffett: Yeah, I’d agree with that. And the truth is our businesses are equities, so 
we own 400 or 500 billion, maybe more, in businesses. We don’t turn them over at all. We 
don’t resell businesses. Well, we won’t even get into that, what we could do, but we don’t 
do it. And we do relatively little, but as Charlie says, we’d do better if I had done less. 
 
PENSIONS 
 
Becky Quick:This is from Daniel Gaultier. “Warren Buffett’s 2013 letter, in the middle of 
page 21, made a prediction that in the next decade you’ll see lots of really bad news about 
pensions. Given recent events like COVID-19 and that 2023 is two years away, would Mr. 
Buffett like to comment or revise his 2013 prediction? Did COVID-19 delay, accelerate, 
eliminate, or not change it?” 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, in a very limited, I mean, in a terrible way, COVID improved the 
pension position. You have less pensioners. But the pension situation is terrible in a great 
many states. It’s not so bad at the corporate level, and there’s some multi-employer plans, 
obviously, that have got problems. But basically, it’s a terrible problem for the states, of 
course, some states. And states are going to go to Washington now and say, We all want 
to get a lot of money because we had these terrible things happen to us during the 
pandemic, which they did. But some of those states have enormous pension deficits and 
they’ll come again if they get a check once and make sure not to be a federal obligation, 
defacto or something, the state’s situation has not gotten better. It has not gotten better at 
all, obviously. 
 
And to a certain extent, the pension managers get more and more desperate as interest 
rates go down. So they’ll listen to almost anybody that promises them - they’ve always had 
that tendency anyway, but they’ll listen to people that promise them that they’re going to 
one way or another solve their problem for them, and that isn’t going to work. So it’s a big, 
big, big problem. And, of course, the real problem is, let’s just take a hypothetical state that 
has a huge pension deficit, and maybe even has a cost of living factor in it, which is really 
going to be a killer. And you can move if you’re an individual. Charlie won’t move to save 
that 500 million. He was not going to move to Nevada or someplace. But you can move if 
you’re an individual, to some degree, particularly if you’re rich and old and retired, and you 
can actually take away an asset from that kind of environment and give it to another state 
that doesn’t really need it as much. So you’ll get adverse selection over time. But if you’re a 
company and you put a plant there, you can’t move the plant in five or 10 or 20 years. So 
as the taxable base of individuals falls down simply because people select out of being a 
part of a population. You can’t select out very well as a corporation. So you have to be very 
careful and think a long time before you go into some state with a huge pension deficit and 
a declining population because you’re going to be the last man left and the pensions won’t 
go away. Well, anybody with a short-term outlook doesn’t worry about that. I mean, just get 
me past the next election, and I’m all right on that one. We’re not going to say our plant is 
going to be around for 50 years in some place where the population gets halved and the 
richer part gets cut dramatically, even more dramatically, and we still got a valuable plant 
there and we’ve got to keep operating. One way or another, it’s not going to be a good 
place to be. 
 
Becky Quick: And we’re almost out of time so I’ll make this the last question. 

2021 BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY ANNUAL MEETING NOTES BY INGRID R. HENDERSHOT, CFA 
Charlie Munger: That’s a good answer. It reminds me of my old Harvard law professor. He 
used to say, “Let me know what your problem is and I’ll try and make it more difficult for 
you.” 
 
BIGGEST LESSON LEARNED IN THE LAST YEAR 
 
Becky Quick: So this one comes from Jan Michael Atlinger. It’s for Warren and Charlie. “I 
have one question which is inspired by Charlie’s mantra, ‘You have to be a continuous 
learning machine.’ So here’s my question. What’s the biggest lesson both of you learned 
during the last year?” 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, my biggest lesson has been to listen more to Charlie. He’s been right 
on some things that I’ve been wrong on. 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, I don’t know. If you’re not a little confused by what’s going on, you 
don’t understand it. We’re in uncharted territory. 
 
Warren Buffett: We enjoy, in a crazy way, actually seeing what happens. I mean, this has 
made us halfway through the movie much more interested in watching even more. This is 
an unusual movie. Our basic principles are we start with the fact we don’t want to 
disappoint the people who left their money with us and things flow out of that. And we may 
disappoint people that don’t make quite as much money. And we’ve seen some strange 
things happen in the world in the last year and 15 months, and we’ve always 
recognized the fact that stranger things are going to happen in the future. And I 
would say, if anything, it’s reinforced our desire to figure out everything possible we 
can do to make sure that Berkshire is 50 or 100 years from now every bit the 
organization and then some that it is now. Charlie? 
 
Charlie Munger: Well, of course, that’s the idea. I think it’s pretty likely to work. 
 
Warren Buffett: Well, we wouldn’t have spent 55 years at it unless we did. 
 
Charlie Munger: Yeah. 
 
Warren Buffett: And Becky, is that the last question? 
 
Becky Quick: That’s the last question.