Charlie Rose Interview with Jack Welch, Part 1
Topic: "Jack: Straight from the Gut" book tour, September 11th, GE model, Honeywell, Internet, Leadership
Date: October 23, 2001

Charlie Rose: We'll be right back. Stay with us. JACK WELCH Says 'Jack' Teaches Celebration of Successes. In March of this year I sat down with JACK WELCH, the chairman of GE, for a one-hour conversation about his tenure at GE and his prospects for the future and a book that he was about to write. We talked of many things in that interview and it received enormous response from the people who watch this program. Well, Jack is back. He has written his book. And we show you this evening part one of a two-part conversation about issues that he has confronted, lessons he has learned and influences on his life. JACK WELCH served as General Electric's chairman and CEO for 20 years until he stepped down last month. During that time he increased sales by 360 percent, he boosted profits by 650 percent. As a proponent of initiatives such as Six Sigma quality, globalization and e-business, he has helped define the modern corporation. The new book is called Jack: Straight from the Gut. And I am pleased to have him here for this two-part conversation which was recorded earlier. Welcome back.

Jack Welch: Thank you so much, Charlie. It's great to be here with you.

Charlie Rose: I want to talk about this book and a lot of the things that are in there, but first we have -- we are going through a traumatic time -- a), because of the tragedy of September 11th; b), because we have launched a major war against terrorism. And now we are feeling vulnerable to anthrax. It is hitting at CBS and NBC and the Senate of the United States and the Post Office. Tell me about you and this week and what your thoughts -- where were you on September 11th?

Jack Welch: I had just launched this book. It was the morning of the Today show. I was on the Today show with Matt Lauer from 7:15 to 7:30, and walked out to go to another show. The first day of a book after working that long. I went out to put the plug in my ear and looked on the screens. I saw horror like I've never seen before in my life. A book seemed so insignificant, so silly. We packed it up. We went down and huddled together and thought our world had changed forever. We couldn't believe it.

Charlie Rose: Has the world changed forever?

Jack Welch: I don't think so. I think we're going to go through a tough time. We're going to have to deal with it. But I think -- I've never seen spirit like this. I just came back from the Midwest. I've been through the Midwest at universities at Northwestern and the University of Chicago, the University of Michigan, talking to a thousand kids at a time. And the energy and the passion, it's a month later but they're determined. They're the same kids they were a month ago. Now we've all got in our soul a lot of feelings. And we have a lot of different feelings than we've had before. We've come together more. This is a great country of determination. And the kids still feel it right in their gut.

Charlie Rose: Well, some say that it in fact caused us to remember who we were and remember values and act on values that were part of our creed.

Jack Welch: Well, I'm telling you, this week -- you would have thought this week -- and it was a very global group I talked to each time, so I ran into 3,500 kids -- about a third from outside the United States at least. It was like being in the 50's when I was in college. Determined, nose against the glass, wanting to know about careers, wanting to know about business, wanting to know about globalization, wanting to know about all these things. With an intensity you couldn't believe. All of them reflective though of what happened. All of them concerned and all of them determined.

Charlie Rose: There are some who would like to see you, because of your management skills, play a public role in the recovery effort. Would you be responsive to that kind of thing?

Jack Welch: I'd listen to anything to help. I mean, I'm committed to doing anything for this country. I'm the luckiest beneficiary of America.

Charlie Rose: Of America.

Jack Welch: I'm just the luckiest guy going in this game. So I'd obviously give back in any way that I was asked to.

Charlie Rose: When you sat down to write this book, at that time I think the highest ever paid for a non-fiction book. I don't know what they paid the president, so he may be competitive. What did you want to accomplish?

Jack Welch: I wanted to reach young people. I want them to know that it's not a straight line to the top. I wanted them to know that everybody's got a shot at it. I wanted them to know that caring more than the next person matters. I wanted them to know that passion counts. One fellow wrote me and said there's more passion in this book than there is in a steamy novel. And it's about emotion. It's about living to the fullest. It's about caring more than the next person. It's about fielding the best teams. It's about putting the best people in the field. So I wanted everybody to know that. That's come out of it surprisingly. I had no idea. I spend a lot of time on my mother in this book. And I'm getting these incredible reactions from pediatricians and things who are saying, "I want all my young mothers to know what tough love is about." Because today in America, people are deciding how do I bring up my kids? Do I discipline them? Don't I? My mother would whack me on the side of the head and then hug me later. And that isn't done today. I'm not saying it should be.

Charlie Rose: I remember what she told you about stuttering. She said -- if this is not a positive point of view of life, I don't know -- she said, "Son, it's because that brain is so big, you have so much to say." If that is not instilling confidence, I don't know what it is.

Jack Welch: And that's been the reaction. The reaction has been as much from mothers, which is surprising.

Charlie Rose: You want to reach people other than people who are looking for some principle of business.

Jack Welch: This isn't a how-to book.

Charlie Rose: It is a what book?

Jack Welch: It's a book about people. It's a book about creating organizations. It's a book about energizing others. It's a book about exciting people. It's a book about making people always come to work loving their job, reaching for the best, always trying to -- taking the drudgery out of a job. You spend most of your waking hours at work. Why the hell would you ever make it awful? So I desperately wanted to get that across.

Charlie Rose: That reminds me of, I think, your wife who said to you, "I know why you want to go to these meetings. You get to play golf. You're with a bunch of guys you like and women that you admire. And you're there and you're talking about things you care about. So no wonder you think going off to a retreat with GE guys is a pretty good thing to do."

Jack Welch: It is. But I want anyone to get that. And I want them to learn that celebration is a part of it. Charlie, if I can get across the point that business is a game. It's a game not unlike the World Series we're watching this week. The guys that -- the team that fields the best players wins. And winning is a cause for breaking corks and celebrating. You see it after every great victory. You see it in a locker room. You see it anywhere. You see applause after a great singer leaves the stage. In business, I found a way to celebrate every little victory there was and get people to be rewarded in the soul as well as the wallet, because it was such fun. Get a pizza. Get a keg. We talk about that maybe too much in here. But it's trying to make business more than this heavy -- people don't want to talk to you about it. They want to talk about the terrible decisions and the moments of all this. It's not like that.

Charlie Rose: You feel strongly that the notion of business has to be understood as it's about people.

Jack Welch: That's all it is. I mean, maybe you can have a good idea for a while and the good idea will -- but it won't sustain itself unless you have a team, unless you have the best people.

Charlie Rose: Where did this come from for you? I mean, did you get this because of your experience at GE? Or did you know it going in, this was the principle that led you to be successful at GE?

Jack Welch: A little bit of both. I started out as an average ballplayer in every sport. And I always knew the best team won there. And very quickly I came to GE, and I started a business. And I hired the first employee and then the second and then third. And I made some real mistakes. And every time you hired a good one, the game changed overnight. And every time you hired someone that wasn't so good, you took a step backwards. Pretty simple stuff. So, in the end I always tried to find people smarter than I was. And that was pretty easy. And I did that. And I'd pile smart people all around me. I just had a cadre of them. And we -- together we'd do --

Charlie Rose: But did somebody teach you to invest in people? To understand that? Or did you just somehow -- I mean, does it go back to your mother? Or does it -- There's something that somebody came to you -- Or is it a natural instinct that people who like people have?

Jack Welch: I think probably a little bit of the latter. Probably more of the latter. I think -- I like being with people. I like challenging people. I like debate. I like all those things. And yet I love having a drink with 'em, too. I mean, I love being around people. I mean, we started meetings -- We would schmooze for the first half hour and talk about what happened on weekend. These things -- we didn't run the most meetings for 20 years.

Charlie Rose: Biggest mistake at GE was Kidder Peabody? Or not?

Jack Welch: No question. And there was a question of buying where the culture didn't come close to fitting.

Charlie Rose: Yeah. But did you buy it on instinct rather than, as some critic pointed, due diligence?

Jack Welch: Well, on this one, I bought it 'cause I was too full of myself. I had bought a whole series of -- I had made about seven straight good deals. So, I was flying. Christ, I might have bought anything at that moment. And a couple people on my board said to me, "You know, this isn't really --" And, of course, I just blew right by 'em with gusto 'cause I was so convinced I was right. And I got one right in the nose.

Charlie Rose: And what'd you learn from that?

Jack Welch: That culture counts.

Charlie Rose: Culture?

Jack Welch: Culture. And, if the cultures can't blend, if the people are different, if the motivation systems are different -- Investment banking is a cash-and-carry game. "Where's my $10 million?" Got it, go home. It's not about the team. It's about their own individual games. That doesn't work in our system. Our system's all about the team.

Charlie Rose: Tell me about Honeywell.

Jack Welch: Yeah.

Charlie Rose: Some would argue, and some will say, "Jack had a -- His last year was not great. He did something terrific. He picked out the right guy to take over. And that was a careful, considered path." You know? And you did it right. Right?

Jack Welch: That's one.

Charlie Rose: That's one. Two?

Jack Welch: Two is that in the midst of this recession, in the midst of this tragedy, General Electric will grow earnings double-digit -- the model works, the business model works.

Charlie Rose: Notwithstanding the fact that we're facing a recession? Notwithstanding the fact that advertising revenues are down at NBC?

Jack Welch: The engines on the planes that crashed into the World Trade Centers were GE engines. The planes -- all four were insured by GE. Six hundred million. Four hundred million dollars net income, GE $600 million pre-tax. And yet we'll grow double-digit. Our earnings will be over $14 billion, our cash flow will be over $17 billion. In the midst of this dilemma.

Charlie Rose: Now, why is that? Because you've built in for the near term, near -- after your departure, an automatic 15 to 20 percent growth.

Jack Welch: No, I didn't build it in. People have gotta deliver. People have gotta do things. But we've got a model that is diverse. And, while this business is bad and this business is bad, three others are doing very well. Five others are doing very well. So, we've got a model here that wasn't supposed to work -- the multi-business company. And, in the end, the multi-business company is the whole game because what we get is the intellect of an NBC and the intellect of an aircraft-engine business and the intellect of a medical-systems business, building MRI and CT machines. And all -- it's an idea factory that all comes together to raise the level of intellect of the organization every day. And that model works.

Charlie Rose: One thing you believe in -- I want to come back to Honeywell -- But one thing you believe in, as you think about that model, is the impact the Internet will have on the future.

Jack Welch: Charlie, it's gonna revolutionize business, as I said the last time I saw you. It's the biggest revolution in my lifetime in business. The fact that some business models didn't work has nothing to do with the fundamentals. The digitization of a company, taking all the bad scud work out of the back rooms, taking all the paperwork out, taking all -- digitizing a company and putting information transparent to customers, transparent to suppliers, transparent to employees. Power will no longer be brokered by some information hog sitting one level above somebody else 'cause everyone will have the same information.

Charlie Rose: We've talked about this before, but everybody didn't see that -- you went to Europe, I think it may have been London. And you -- somehow somebody shows you, who's on line. Now, you knew about on line because somebody in your family had ordered on line before. But that was about the extent of your knowledge. Right?

Jack Welch: That's not quite what happened. I went to Europe, sitting in a room, around a table like you'd have a meeting. And this young man who was running our global consumer finance company said, "I just came from a meeting with my mentor." I said, "Mentor? I thought you were the boss." He said, "No, no. My mentor." I said, "Well, what do you mean?" He said, "I've got a young woman -- 23 years old -- who comes in to see me two to three times a week and is teaching me the Internet." I said -- A light went on. I said, "What an idea." But that wasn't my idea. But quickly I ran home --

Charlie Rose: Got a mentor.

Jack Welch: Got a mentor. And got a thousand of GE's top people to get a mentor because the facts are -- Listen to this. The facts are that knowledge of the Internet at this point in time, Charlie, was inversely proportional to age and height in the organization.

Charlie Rose: Exactly.

Jack Welch: So, what we did was we brought these kids in. So, we did two things. We learned the Internet from them. We tipped the organization upside down. And got all the gossip in the organization exchange along with the information on the Internet. It became a hell of a boundaryless thing.

Charlie Rose: Now, did you express to them, "I'd like for you guys to think about getting a mentor"?

Jack Welch: Yeah, sure, Charles. "By Friday, you will have a mentor because it's good for you. It's good for GE. And it's good for all of us."

Charlie Rose: I'm just trying to get a picture for democracy within this corporate structure.

Jack Welch: Well, there's a lot of democracy. But there's a lot of --

Charlie Rose: Leadership.

Jack Welch: -- leadership. Thank you for getting me out that one.

Charlie Rose: Honeywell -- you were going out in a blaze of glory. This was the biggest merger ever. Fit. You had approval in the United States.

Jack Welch: I had it.

Charlie Rose: Overseas, the European Commission stopped JACK WELCH cold. Now, did you blow it? Did you somehow not play it right?

Jack Welch: Let me put it for you this way -- my view of it. What people don't realize is the European Commission is less than a decade old. But we think of America as a new country vis-a-vis Europe. That's true in one sense. But the facts are the European Commission, lying on top of the Europeans, is less than a decade old. They're making laws. They're making currency. I sat down with the president -- he's an old friend -- of the EU. And I asked Romano Prodi, "Romano, tell me about what's the job like?" He was an old friend was on that board. "Jack, you can't believe the job. It's so much fun," he said. "We get up every day, and we make new laws." And I'm sitting there at dinner and he is telling that story. And I'm thinking to myself, "He's making new laws. And he's excited. And I'm sitting here trying to get a deal to roll."

Charlie Rose: He says, "Jack's disdain for protocol, diplomacy, regulators and government in general is palpable throughout the book." True or not true?

Jack Welch: Generally true.

Charlie Rose: Now, tell me what that's about. You think regulation's bad. You think government's bad -- Because we are living now in a time --

Jack Welch: When we need government.

Charlie Rose: -- when we need government.

Jack Welch: Absolutely. More than ever. No question. Well, no. I don't resent government. I resent bureaucrats. I don't resent government -- I try and tell 'em this story about the blindness to total adherence to government. But, God Almighty, we have many great government people. Leaders. All kinds of good things. In this city. In its people. I mean, in its firemen, its policemen. Rudy Giuliani has demonstrated leadership like there's -- with a capital "L."

Charlie Rose: Part one of our conversation with JACK WELCH. Part two tomorrow night. Thank you for joining us.
