Charlie Rose Interview with Jack Welch and Suzy Wetlaufer
Topic: Writing "Winning," Candor, Mergers, Leadership, Career Advice
Date: 2004

Charlie Rose: G.E., and Suzy Wetlaufer, former editor of the "Harvard Business Review," are here. Together, they are writing a new book called "Winning." I am pleased to have them at this table. You for the first time. You for the what? Third, fourth time you've been here?

Jack Welch: Third or fourth time. Charlie, thank you.

Charlie Rose: Welcome.

Jack Welch: Thank you very much.

Charlie Rose: All right. We talked about this book the last time you were here.

Jack Welch: Right.

Charlie Rose: Right? And I said, without all of the stuff, the sordid and not sordid -- it's not sordid.

Jack Welch: It's not sordid.

Charlie Rose: It's interesting. Without the love story --

Jack Welch: Yes.

Charlie Rose: --best way to put it, I didn't think the publisher would be attracted to the idea, and I was flat wrong. Right?

Jack Welch: It turned out that they and we wanted no part of any of the love story.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Jack Welch: They wanted to understand some of the dynamics we had to bring to the party about winning from -- to every level in the organization.

Charlie Rose: Right. Based on your experiences since you left G.E., talking and traveling and making a lot of speeches, you're hearing of feedback about what people have on their mind.

Jack Welch: Charlie, Suzy and I have been in audiences of over 250,000 people in the last three years. I've also had experiences now for some 40 years in business. The last book I wrote was all about a biography. It was a biography.

Charlie Rose: Right.

Jack Welch: This one is going to be about how business really works, the nitty-gritty, how you get to winning. Different situations from top to middle to bottom, and how everybody sees it differently and how you have to act.

Charlie Rose: You were, as editor of the "Harvard Business Review," frequently writing about leadership.

Suzy Wetlaufer: Yes.

Charlie Rose: How is this, in your own journalistic experience, his managerial experience -- I mean, how are you going to work this out?

Suzy Wetlaufer: Well, as I like to say, this is Jack's book. This is going to be based on Jack's experience and his knowledge, and also really drawn out of a lot of the questions that we heard on the road in the past three years, where people are asking, you know, how do you really fire a friend? How do you put change through an organization when people really resist change? People hate change. And so, I think my role is to help Jack conceptualize what we heard, what he thinks, and to do a lot of the editing part of it. So, I certainly bring -- in fact, when we were working on it this weekend, Jack was talking about emotional intelligence. And I had edited Dan Goldman's works on emotional intelligence when they appeared in the "Harvard Business Review," and I brought those ideas right to the table, and we talked about them. And so, in that way, my exposure to the business thinking and the world of the academy comes into play, as it has always since we first met.

Charlie Rose: And --

Suzy Wetlaufer: You know, I think that the process is very -- it's very based on how Jack and I work together. There are going to be a ton of conversations. We've already started the book, so we know how it works. A ton of conversations --

Charlie Rose: You mean, you started the book even before you had the idea of doing the book simply because you guys talk about these things all the time.

Jack Welch: Right. That's what we do. Most people do other things; we do that.

Charlie Rose: Exactly. The last time I talked to you, you said to me essentially this -- not the last time, but a couple of times before: Writing the previous book was the hardest thing you had ever done.

Jack Welch: Right. It was. But this is the easiest thing I've ever done.

Charlie Rose: Because you've got her there.

Jack Welch: Yes, and her talent and her ideas. One and one makes three every time. She brings a perspective. She challenges.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Jack Welch: It's really fun.

Charlie Rose: And in the hands of a good person, a good interrogator, a good catalyst, you can reveal things that perhaps on your own you wouldn't have uncovered.

Jack Welch: Yes. I mean, she wrote a -- what was the first line when you interviewed me? What did you say to me?

Suzy Wetlaufer: Oh, well, I asked Jack why he didn't write the real book. I mean, I think I had read Jack straight from the gut, and I asked him -- and then I guess we had some conversation about different experiences. And I said to him, I kept on asking, "Why didn't you put that in the book? Why didn't you put that in the book?" And I finally said, "Why don't you write the real book?"

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Suzy Wetlaufer: But it was very closely --

Charlie Rose: And what did he say?

Suzy Wetlaufer: He said, "Why would I ever do that?"

Jack Welch: No, I did write the real book. I wrote the real, real book without -- it was from my perspective. It wasn't being probed underneath. Like, for example, what a CEO does. Two CEOs get together. They go on CNBC. Then they shake hands in front of the camera, and they go to dinner that night. And 20,000 people will --

Charlie Rose: Lose their jobs.

Jack Welch: -- lose their jobs.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Jack Welch: We're going to write the book from, what do you do if you're one of the 20,000? How do you feel about that? What's it like? And what can you do?

Charlie Rose: But how do you know anything about what it's like if you're one of the 20,000?

Jack Welch: Because I was there. I was there.

Charlie Rose: You're the one who fired them.

Jack Welch: I was there. I was there, and she's seen a lot of it.

Suzy Wetlaufer: I think, also -- I loved the first book. I think that part of what happened --

Charlie Rose: What are you trying to do? Are you trying to retreat now from what you said before?

Suzy Wetlaufer: No, I'm not. I'm trying to say -- what I want to say is that sometimes you don't know what you know until we've processed it. Jack had just retired. And then he went on the road and people started asking him a lot of questions, and he'd just sort of think about what he knew. And he actually, I think in the last three years, really formulated what we would call at the "Harvard Business Review," you know, a management philosophy. And so, part of what I've done, if I may be so bold to say, is to help Jack figure out what he knows, so that he can write a different version of the real book.

Charlie Rose: Can you give me an example of what that means? You helped him figure out what he knows. Now, what is it that he knows that maybe he didn't know he knew?

Suzy Wetlaufer: Oh, gosh. Let's just talk about mergers. I think that Jack, having risen up through the organization and being, I think, a great, emphatic person, a student of human behavior at all times, understood what was going on in the different layers of the organization when mergers occurred. And sure, he was the person executing mergers and being sort of at the top. But the reason why G.E. was so good at mergers is that people in the top team understood what it felt like to be merged.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Suzy Wetlaufer: I mean, they invented this whole thing with integration managers. They were the first ones to do that.

Charlie Rose: They understood corporate differences. They understood integration. And they understood you've got to put yourself in the person of the people.

Jack Welch: So, it's like a death. It's like a death. All of the relationships that you've built are now gone. You know your boss, your former boss' boss. You can see your route to this job and that job. You can understand what kind of a raise you might get. Now, a new face shows.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Jack Welch: Hey, wait a minute. And the other thing I think Suzy -- that I found -- I found is an enormous lack of candor in organizations. I mean, incredible. I didn't know that, Charlie.

Charlie Rose: Yes.

Jack Welch: I was living in this world, where we had driven candor home over years of doing it.

Charlie Rose: Yes. But you say that. And two points about that. No. 1, you do say that there's a lack of candor. On the other hand, you used to always believe that the bottom 10 that you do them a favor with candor rather than simply not leveling with people.

Jack Welch: Absolutely. And I believe that to my toes. And if I wrote -- and I will explain this book -- in the last book, I blew over the top 20, middle 70, bottom 10 as if it was something you do. It takes years to prepare an organization to do that.

Suzy Wetlaufer: I think that the one thing that Jack didn't know that he knew was how special G.E. was and is. That G.E. is this really special organization, and that when we first met, I took to calling G.E. the "garden of Eden." Because he would describe the sort of management practices, and I would say to him, "By the way, that really happens to sort of 10 percent of all companies." And I think that when we went on the road and Jack talked to so many managers and students and people who work in companies, one of the things he faced and discovered and learned more about was that a lot of companies are not quite in the revolution where G.E. and other great companies are in terms of management. And this book talks to them.

Charlie Rose: If you went back now, notwithstanding the success that Jeff is having, could you manage that company better because of the experiences you've had away from the company?

Jack Welch: You know, Charlie, I think I might be able to. I think that I might know too much. In other words, I might have too much of a patterned response. That would be the thing I'd worry about. I mean, I was just going down this alley and that alley and this alley and that alley. And then it all came together. And I'm not sure that being fresh and going down those alleys isn't probably a hell of a good idea. If I went in now, I might be too cooked, so to speak. Overbaked enough, you know. And into any place to run. I mean, I've got a lot of ideas that I really have seen, and they've hardened as I've gone out and talked to people about a lot of things.

Charlie Rose: So, therefore, you're saying therefore you'd be today, you so have baked your own ideas and they have become, you know, who you are in a sense of what you believe. They are part of your mindset that you'd be less listening, less responsive, less --

Jack Welch: No, I think less experimental.

Charlie Rose: Because you think you've already gone out and experimented.

Jack Welch: I think I've experimented. I mean, I don't know that.

Charlie Rose: All right, let me go to a real-live situation. Tell me what you think of Comcast and Disney and all that's happened to Michael Eisner?

Jack Welch: What a week. I think that Roberts made a bold move. It's going to be interesting. Michael has had the company in somewhat of an improving performance for the last three quarters. So, the Roberts find themselves in a spot, where they've got support from vocal former directors.

Charlie Rose: And a whole bunch of pension funds.

Jack Welch: And on the other hand, they don't have enough money on the table.

Charlie Rose: And they worry that if they raise the bid, it will have a negative impact on their stock.

Jack Welch: Well, it did already. They lost 10 percent of it.

Charlie Rose: So, you would advise them to raise the offer.

Jack Welch: No, these are tenacious people. I mean, you've got Ralph. And you've got Brian. And they're so mild mannered, but they are as tight as it gets.

Charlie Rose: Otherwise, you don't take one little system down in Mississippi and build it into a complex.

Jack Welch: Well, go check AT&T.

Charlie Rose: So, you know, I think Michael -- now, I know everyone is beating on him and beating on him. He's got a run going here. He may be able to deliver real earnings growth and get his stock into the low 30s.

Charlie Rose: Do I hear you saying you think Michael Eisner may be the best man to run the Disney Company right now?

Jack Welch: I didn't say that. I said he may be able to pull out -- put some earnings together and survive.

Charlie Rose: But surviving is what? I mean, surviving is sort of survive to live another day? Survive to play another day?

Jack Welch: To get shareholders more value. To go out on a better note.

Charlie Rose: Now, the interesting thing about listening to this is if you sort of went back to G.E. -- I mean, everybody knows that Immelt is doing a great job.

Jack Welch: Great job.

Charlie Rose: Facing different economic circumstances than you faced.

Jack Welch: Totally different. Totally different.

Jack Welch: And the other thing I think -- I found is an enormous lack of candor in organizations. I mean, incredible. I didn't know that, Charlie. I was living in this world, where we had driven candor home over years of doing it.

Charlie Rose: On what big issue do you and Jack Welch differ?

Suzy Wetlaufer: Oh, Chinese food.

Charlie Rose: Oh, OK, what? Chinese food. No, I mean, like, are you -- are you more liberal than he is? Are you more what than he is?

Suzy Wetlaufer: You know, people have asked us, because we act and seem very similar, it's not the first time we've been asked where do you differ? Because we are very similar.

Jack Welch: Politically we're the same.

Charlie Rose: You're both conservative, very.

Jack Welch: I'm not. We're both center. We like the fiscal policy of Bush and --

Charlie Rose: I want to come back to you, Suzy, in one second, because I want to end up talking about leadership, which is something that interests me.

Jack Welch: Charlie, I clearly would have not cowered. I would have come forward, as I tell everybody they should, and tell it like it is. This is what's happened in our life. Now, as I think I've told you before, no one might have cared at that point, but that's what I should have done. I did it all my business life. I used to brag about it -- I screwed up here, I made this mistake, I blew up a plant, I did this. I should have gone out and said, "Look, here's what's happened." I thought having a discussion with my ex-wife and my children and my close people was enough. It wasn't close --

Charlie Rose: It is all behind you now?

Jack Welch: Well, it's behind all of the parties involved, and we're getting married on the 24th of April, and we're excited as hell.

Charlie Rose: Good for you. Congratulations. We'll also talk about a subject that fascinates me, which is the ideal leadership and management, where one takes off and one begins and the whole notion is, what makes it up? When a leader walks in the room, what does she have and what does he have, and the whole idea of what makes somebody have the ability to lead, which is to take other people and say, "This is where we want to go. And I believe in you and you believe in me and we can get there."

Jack Welch: We spent Saturday talking about that.

Suzy Wetlaufer: Talking about that all day Saturday.

Charlie Rose: All right. It's great to have you. Thanks, Jack. Thank you, Suzy.
