Charlie Rose Interview with Jack Welch and Suzy Welch
Topic: "The Real-Life MBA," Jack Welch Management Institute, candor, team building, GE, career advice
Date: April 16, 2015

Charlie Rose: Suzy and Jack Welch are here. Jack is the former chairman and CEO of General Electric. He led the company from 1981 to 2001; in 2010 he founded the Jack Welch Management Institute. His wife, Suzy Welch, is the former editor-in-chief of the "Harvard Business Review." They have coauthored "The Real-Life MBA, Your No-BS Guide to Winning the Game, Building a Team and Growing Your Career." The stated purpose of this book is showing how to galvanize performance, how to unleash growth, how to build wow teams and how to create a fulfilling career. And perhaps more important than all of them, have fun doing it.

Suzy Welch: Well, we were minding our own business. We wrote "Winning" 10 years ago and since then built a life we really enjoy, traveling around the world, talking to businesspeople in all different types of companies and all different countries. And we had no intention of writing another book. But the thought came into our head that there was no book that was an MBA in a book.

Jack Welch: Business school is an expensive proposition. You take two years off your career. You go to a campus, it costs you $300,000. You lose your salary, you lose your promotions on the ladder. This book is a good supplement. Our students are 38 years old, they're midcareer and they want to grow in their companies and they want the tools that will help them get there. We're growing 40 percent a year, 100 percent online.

Charlie Rose: Has the idea of online education gotten to the point where everybody agrees it's the thing that we all hoped it would be?

Suzy Welch: Not yet, but it's so much better. When we started talking about creating the Jack Welch Management Institute, there was still a little stink on it and it's gotten a lot better.

Charlie Rose: Ten lessons from the Welches. Your company's values and your personal values must be compatible.

Suzy Welch: Imagine if they're not. Imagine if you value speed, fast-paced, cutting-edge, entrepreneurial stuff. Imagine if you value risk-taking and you work at a big, stodgy, old bureaucracy that values hierarchy. You've got to have compatibility. Otherwise, you'll be like in a straitjacket.

Charlie Rose: When you were at GE, the idea of the culture at GE was crucial to you.

Jack Welch: It was my whole thing. Get faster, become a -- get everybody's brain in the game -- 60,000 people had stock options. They became owners. It was part of getting everybody in the game.

Charlie Rose: In performance cultures, actions have to have consequences.

Jack Welch: Absolutely. If you do well, you get a lot of praise. And you get a lot of praise in the soul. Psychic income and you get a lot of cash in the wallet.

Charlie Rose: You also say that you have to find coachable developments. You can take a talent and make it better. On the other hand, there are people who have flaws who will not get better.

Jack Welch: Yes. But you also have a culture where, if you have a manager and they're developing people and promoting them, they've got to be rewarded for that. Every time you make a personnel appointment, it's worth 100 speeches because you can talk all you want about values and then you put a jackass in the job and the organization says why am I going to listen to all that blowing. The organization -- you are the last person generally to know in the organization what the scoop is.

Charlie Rose: Communication -- simple, consistent, focused communication travels faster and is understood better by the organization.

Suzy Welch: Communication is so hard. The worst crime of communication is leaders think if you say it once it's heard. It's just not true. You have got to say it until you want to gag on it. You say it and five different people hear it five different ways. That's why you've got to stick to your message, the same message for everybody and say it again and again and again. And invite people to push back and say, "Are you hearing me right?"

Charlie Rose: What's the generosity gene?

Jack Welch: It's the characteristic that you'll find in most great leaders. Generous with praise, spirit, coaching, cash -- they love to give raises, they love to give bonuses. They never steal an idea from one person and show it as their own. They always give credit. It's a spirit. And when you see people like that, they had that spirit. And you think about the skinflint who is holding back, who is taking ideas. They don't go that far.

Charlie Rose: Continuous learning is critical.

Suzy Welch: Especially today because the world is changing very quickly. Industries are forming and unforming. Technology comes along. And if you don't keep up, you just are a luddite in around two months.

Charlie Rose: Where do you stand in your company? Do you know where you stand?

Jack Welch: Ten percent of the crowd at max. It's frightening. How can you build a great team if people don't know where they stand? We have kids that go to work and they live and die on the head fake of their boss.

Charlie Rose: When you were at GE you thought you would be at GE until you had the top job. But you quit once. You came close to quitting about three times.

Jack Welch: Well, the first time I quit I was in my first year and I got a raise. I went back to my bullpen of other engineers and I was pleased with my raise, until I found out they had the same one. And I thought I was better. And that's socialistic behavior of spreading it equally. It killed me. And I resigned. And my boss' boss came up to me on the night of my going-away party and said, "Stay. Here's what I'll do for you."

Charlie Rose: Do you think most people go into their boss and say where do I stand?

Jack Welch: We have a way of doing this that works. You're my boss. "I'd like to talk to you about how I can do better. Tell me, because I really want to shine here." One of the great things an employee has to do is make their boss smarter. You have to broaden the boss' horizon. The boss has to go out of their meeting with you feeling they found something out. It's critical. You don't go in ever demanding. You come in offering.

Jack Welch: Pay is not the thing you go in on. You go in and you talk about the performance. And then you might work your way to pay. But you don't go in with, "Harry got this percent. Mary got this and I got this." You got to have the self-confidence to be willing to pick up stakes and move on if it's not the right place for you.

Charlie Rose: Don't be afraid to do that.

Jack Welch: Don't be afraid. Most of the time it is better. I can't tell you how many people have left GE on a performance basis. They weren't surprised. They left and went out and said, "Thank God this happened to me. I've got a whole new life. I'm happier."

Jack Welch: Except for Drucker.

Charlie Rose: So, except for Peter Drucker.

Jack Welch: He is. He is.

Charlie Rose: You say your job as CEO is to manage short and long. Any jackass can come in and squeeze the place like crazy for two quarters.

Charlie Rose: But not for 20 years.

Jack Welch: Not for 20 years. And any jerk can say, "Come back in five years and we'll chat about where I'm going." You've got to do both. That's why you got the job. That's why they get these wild salaries.

Charlie Rose: What's the toughest call you made at GE?

Jack Welch: I always say my biggest mistake was Kidder Peabody; when I bought that, it didn't work. Too much hubris.

Charlie Rose: "Oh, I can run this, too," is that what it was?

Jack Welch: Yes, yes.

Charlie Rose: Thank you both. The book is "The Real-Life MBA."
