Charlie Rose Interview with Jack Welch and Suzy Welch
Topic: "Winning" book, candor, work-life balance, leadership, corporate governance, Peter Drucker
Date: April 6, 2005

Charlie Rose: World's largest corporation. She is the former editor of the "Harvard Business Review." Together, they have written a new book on strategies for business success. It is called "Winning." I am pleased to have them back at this table. Welcome back.

Jack Welch: Thank you so much.

Suzy Welch: Thank you.

Charlie Rose: I want to get to "Winning" in a second. Tell me how this -- how did you create this book? Because this is better written by far than the last book.

Jack Welch: Charlie, it is.

Charlie Rose: It is.

Jack Welch: It is.

Charlie Rose: It's smarter, it's tighter, it's all the things that people said last time you didn't do.

Jack Welch: I got the editor of the "Harvard Business Review."

Suzy Welch: Well, I will also add that Jack wrote this book when he was retired. Remember, he wrote the last book he was working a day job running GE. And so, he had more time and energy to commit to this book.

Charlie Rose: So, how did you write this book?

Suzy Welch: We knew what the book was going to be about, chapter by chapter. We took it chapter by chapter, and we would talk and talk and talk for 10 days, two weeks about a topic -- say hiring. How do you hire great people, that's a chapter in "Winning." And we'd talk about it, and Jack would say, I'm done talking about it. We'd keep asking questions, we'd keep going at it. And after he had downloaded everything in his brain, occasionally we'd call up somebody who knew a lot about it. And then I would go into a small office we have, what we call the cave, and I'd write a first draft that was just a rough, rough first draft. We'd take the first draft. We'd pull it apart and put it back together again, 20 or 30 times. We did it chapter by chapter.

Charlie Rose: And it ends up a distillation of everything you know.

Jack Welch: Everything I know. And also, we had three years of research. Things I learned, too. Suzy was with me all the time, we learned what people are thinking about. Work-life balance, hiring, and all these different things. Bad bosses, how do you work for them.

Charlie Rose: But how did you learn that?

Jack Welch: I know, but I didn't ever have it pounded at me by people in the audience. Questioning. So I was able to crystallize my thinking, and it was her questioning, I was able to develop the answers.

Charlie Rose: So, the process of going out and talking to audiences around the world --

Jack Welch: Mighty research like no one can have.

Charlie Rose: And what's on their mind?

Jack Welch: Things that are in this book. How do I deal with the stresses of my work-life balance? How do I work for a lousy boss? How do I get promoted? And I'm sitting in this job now, and I'm not happy. I learned that victims, you can't be a victim. And we saw victim after victim, kept saying, stop it. Shake yourself, slap yourself. Don't be a victim.

Charlie Rose: The other thing I picked out -- here is the essential idea: You've got to find good people. You've got to trust them, you've got to motivate them, you've got to compensate them, and you've got to hold them accountable, and you've got to give them their opportunities.

Suzy Welch: Right. The last part may be one of the most important, and that you've got to build them. You've got to pour self-confidence into them. You've got to make them better. You've got to invest your energy and your soul in making them better. You've got to grow them like a garden. And if there's a weed, you've got to rip it out or say to the weed, hey, time for you to go soon.

Jack Welch: So, you left one thing out I'd like to add, which is important part of this book, which is candor and transparency. You've got to have that in an organization.

Charlie Rose: What is the biggest little secret in business?

Suzy Welch: The lack of candor. The biggest dirty little secret in business is no one -- or not no one, but people don't tell the truth.

Charlie Rose: Does it go beyond business?

Suzy Welch: Yes. The book says, look, philosophers have been talking about this for as long as there's been philosophy. And this is part of human nature. You don't say to your aunt, you've gained weight. This is part of social interaction, and we're trained from when we're really little to make nice. And there is a line between candor and being rude. And what we're talking about is making sure you understand where that line is and using candor -- and not just in business, but in all relationships. And in the relationship you have with yourself. One of the hardest candid conversations you have is with yourself, about your own performance, your own desires for yourself.

Charlie Rose: Work-life balance. What is your recommendation?

Jack Welch: Well, I think it's really a question of making your choice. It's a big decision to make, that you each have to make a deal with yourself. Look in the mirror, and decide what -- for example, I say in this book that I didn't have what people would look at and say, perfect balance. To me, it was perfect balance, though. I loved playing golf. And I loved working like hell, and those two things worked for me. It wasn't perfect.

Charlie Rose: For children and wives, it wasn't perfect.

Jack Welch: It wasn't perfect. It wasn't perfect.

Charlie Rose: Would you do it again?

Jack Welch: I'd do it the same way, Charlie. I don't know any other way to do it. And I've got four healthy, happy kids.

Jack Welch: You make your choice. But then once you make it, it's a big delivery issue. If I work for you, Charlie, and you're the boss and I'm telling you every time you ask me that I've got to go somewhere, you're not going to be that prone to promoting me. However, if I deliver for you, if I get you something that makes you look smarter with your boss, you are going to say, the next time I want a day off, take it. The big word is, if. If you deliver, you earn flexibility.

Charlie Rose: This is a guy that has never been greatly enamored of business gurus, fair to say?

Suzy Welch: True.

Jack Welch: Except for Drucker.

Charlie Rose: So, except for Peter Drucker. He's 97.

Jack Welch: I saw him last night.

Charlie Rose: How was he?

Jack Welch: Still very focused, he spoke at the conference.

Charlie Rose: He is really the exception and he's a gold standard.

Jack Welch: He is. He is.

Charlie Rose: Leadership. You have interviewed a lot of people. Tell me what you think it's about.

Suzy Welch: It's about them. It's about other people. You become a leader when your crank is totally turned by other people getting better. That's what it comes down to, it's about caring passionately. And in "Winning," Jack had his eight rules for what leaders do. But when you sort of distill -- if you had to push all the way down and say, what do leaders do? Leaders care about other people. That's the beginning of what leaders do right.

Charlie Rose: But is that a natural ability or something you can learn?

Jack Welch: I think it's much more learned. Take public speaking. When I had to give my first speech, with my speech impediment, I had a typed speech. It was 35 years ago. I was giving it to vice presidents of GE. I went to the bathroom six times before I came out on stage to read it. I was shaking. Now, I'm not a great speaker now, but I'm comfortable doing it. So I think these things are learned. I think if you don't like people, you can't be a leader. There is something about being an extrovert that helps in management.

Charlie Rose: Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton, for example. One is an extrovert and one is different.

Jack Welch: Bill Clinton, the best. He touches people. He makes them feel important. He believes it. I think Bill Clinton is very authentic when he's with you. He happens to meet somebody else the next minute, and they feel he's great. He's got the touch.

Charlie Rose: Do you miss not being able to walk into the CEO's office at General Electric and make big decisions?

Jack Welch: Not an iota. Turn the page. Pick the CEO. And let it rip. Go do something else. Don't look back. That game is over.

Charlie Rose: What do you want to do with the rest of your life?

Jack Welch: Last night we were in Jacksonville, 2,000 people. We met the most marvelous people. We were there until 10:30 last night, sitting out there talking about business. The surprise in this book is young people are gravitating to this book. Not just CEOs, not just middle managers, but young people. And we're going to go to schools now, for the next six weeks.

Charlie Rose: Warren Buffett, who doesn't do many interviews, the one thing he does and he loves to do is to meet with students. And they talk about all the things you're talking about -- balance, leadership, accountability, choices. And I think what he is astounded by, it's not so much about finance, it is about how you live your life.

Jack Welch: Exactly. That's what this is. How you live your life.

Charlie Rose: The book is called "Winning." Jack Welch with Suzy Welch. Warren Buffett said, "No other management book will ever be needed." It's not just for management, not for business, it's about living.

Suzy Welch: Yeah, it's really about work and life.

Charlie Rose: Thank you. Great to see you. Jack Welch and Suzy Welch, "Winning."
