Charlie Rose Interview with Jack Welch, Part 2
Topic: Honeywell deal, GE model, risk, corporate responsibility, economy post-9/11, future plans
Date: October 24, 2001

Charlie Rose: And part two of our conversation with the author of the number-one book in America, JACK WELCH, the former chairman and CEO from General Electric. Let me continue with this just for a moment. "Jack's relationship with Mario Monti, European Union Competition commissioner, was a case study in how not to handle the process and protocol" blah-blah-blah.

Jack Welch: Yeah.

Charlie Rose: You don't buy that at all.

Jack Welch: Well, I could hand three hand-written from Mario Monti to contrary. Look, let's not-- let's take the good stuff and discard some of that. Let's take some of this-- This is a man who lost his job over this deal. This is a man who got fired the day after the deal didn't work. Now--

Charlie Rose: He was--

Jack Welch: --let's feel some sympathy. Let's feel some sympathy.

Charlie Rose: Right.

Jack Welch: I mean, he has-- he has a right to feel venom in some way about this. He lost his employment. He was fired.

Charlie Rose: Because the Honeywell--

Jack Welch: Deal didn't go through.

Charlie Rose: --didn't go through.

Jack Welch: That's tough stuff. I understand it. I said on the front page of that story, "I've always had respect for the man."

Charlie Rose: How much did it-- how great was your disappointment over that deal?

Jack Welch: No, it soured. It soured as they started taking it away. It wasn't all of a sudden a shock, this is what you're going to do. They started ripping it apart about halfway through it. So the last half was total torment. The best line-- one of the best lines in the book was I was on the plane flying over and I've got some Honeywell experts with me on the plane. And we're going over with a little pad. "Well, if we give them this thing here and this thing here" -- we're talking about $100 million here and $100 million here. We get a phone call from our lawyers in Brussels saying they're at $6 billion now that they want us to give up and give it to our competition. We just took our book and folded it over. We were miles apart. From that point on, we tried to make it work. We tried to put some logic in behind it, but we were dead.

Charlie Rose: Did you view this as a crowning achievement to leave with? I mean, did you think this is like Ted Williams hitting a home run at his last at-bat? Honeywell.

Jack Welch: I didn't think that way at all.

Charlie Rose: Ever?

Jack Welch: Ever. The deal was this -- somebody else was buying it. My company was buying it. It was lying there.

Charlie Rose: Somebody else was going to buy it and so you stepped in and said, "Not in front of me."

Jack Welch: I stepped in and said, "Not in front of me." Come on. Charlie, you've got to understand, I could have made the deal.

Charlie Rose: But you had to give up too much.

Jack Welch: And I-- what good would I be? I stole a giant, and hand my successor a broken wheel? No way.

Charlie Rose: What do you regret? What was your proudest moment, first, at GE?

Jack Welch: We'd like to think that. And I-- you know, as I talk about Giuliani's leadership, I have to talk about Immelt's leadership. He's been there a month. Now imagine getting the job two days--

Charlie Rose: Two days after September 11th.

Jack Welch: And all these things happened here. This guy has been unbelievable. He's gone out to all his employees. He's just the same way Rudy has gone out to the city. I call him the "Corporate Giuliani," if you will. He didn't cancel his analyst meeting, as many have done. He went right out there and told them, "Here's what I know. Here's what I don't know. Here's what I think. Here's what I'm not sure of." And captivated an audience of 300 people for two hours and told them everything about the company, seven days after it happened.

Charlie Rose: Are you staying out of the way?

Jack Welch: I haven't been near it.

Charlie Rose: How did it happen that you went from Neutron Jack to business manager, leader, icon considered best of class?

Jack Welch: Charlie, I think it was a misunderstanding in the beginning. We came out of the war -- our country did -- and had the 50's, 60's and 70's with growth in the air. Germany was on its back. Japan was on its back. What did we build? We built a military industrial complex. We built a hierarchy. We had a general called a CEO. We had generals, colonels, et cetera. And they were sitting on top of a company that could grow if it just breathed. What happened? Foreign competition came. I was making things in the United States in 1980 in Syracuse, New York, that the manufacturing cost was more than the Japanese were selling them for in downtown Syracuse.

Charlie Rose: So you couldn't compete?

Jack Welch: I couldn't compete. So I had to take those actions. And we were the first big company to do it. Now if those actions turned out to be wrong, I wouldn't be in this whatever people say nice about me. But it turned out to be right to liberate the people, to get the bureaucracy out, to ask them for their ideas, to create work out, to create celebrations, to make work more fun. That turned out in the end to be the answer. It was a liberating thing. It was an energizing thing. Before big companies managed their size; we enjoyed our size.

Charlie Rose: Do you see any limits on bigness?

Jack Welch: I think the only limit is the human mind, the creativity. There's a notion of the power exerted by big companies. I never felt that at all. I felt power against other companies in this poker game. Never felt it with governments. Always felt governments had the upper hand.

Charlie Rose: Tell me about Welch on risk.

Jack Welch: More cautious than one would think.

Charlie Rose: Really?

Jack Welch: Not afraid to take them as long as they're containable. Love taking risks that I can take and not sink the ship.

Charlie Rose: And the downside -- you can protect the downside.

Jack Welch: Right. I'm always thinking about what's the downside. I look like I'm a big risk taker.

Charlie Rose: But you never took a risk that if you failed it would sink the ship.

Jack Welch: Never. Never came close. That's the fun of it all. I was always taking the risk.

Charlie Rose: You were always playing on the upside?

Jack Welch: Absolutely. I always had more chips. Remember in college -- I remember playing cards in college and having my $3 allowance, or whatever it was, mailed to me by mother. And you'd be up all night playing and some guy would have 30 bucks. You could never call him. He'd raise. He'd get another hand. You couldn't call him, OK? Well, that's what this is all about.

Charlie Rose: A corporation's role in society -- what is it?

Jack Welch: A corporation's role in society, first and foremost, is to win, to be successful, to be profitable, to grow. Because when you do that, you pay taxes. You have people who are not scared, hanging on. They give back to their community. Fifty-five thousand GE people all over the world volunteer their time, on their own, to bring inner-city kids to graduation rates that are triple and quadruple what they were. In Cincinnati, we had a school where five percent of the kids went to college, now it's 60 percent go to college. From GE engineers in the aircraft engine business we can give back.

Charlie Rose: So your first goal is to make money.

Jack Welch: And provide an atmosphere where people can do things. Because the whole thing is that if people are frightened of their own security, they're not going to give back to the community. So a healthy company doesn't cut corners, doesn't cut corners on the environment, gives back its people. And all this nonsense about a corporation's role in society, it's to win. It's to have resources and happy, excited workers that can give back. A broke company-- take a dot.com now. Go ask him for something.

Charlie Rose: Tell me about celebrations.

Jack Welch: So important. Their successes in anything they're doing. Little victories. Big victories. Medium-sized victories. Inside the company and outside. We celebrate our volunteers.

Charlie Rose: The economy, today.

Jack Welch: Charlie, we've been going down -- decelerating -- for a year. Started last October. We're now a year into it. This would have been a negative GDP in my opinion in this quarter under any set of circumstances. It's been exacerbated by this incredible tragedy. Things are rough. We're in a deep, deep economic slowdown. Now, we have an economy that's a $10-trillion economy. We have a budget that is balanced or maybe a little surplus. We've got inflation running well below interest rates. We've got all the economic tools to fix this in a normal economic time.

Charlie Rose: You're troubled by it, though.

Jack Welch: Yeah, I am. But I'm confident that this strong economy will get back. It may be a longer haul. What I pray for is that we keep this bipartisan focus, that we don't rip ourselves apart publicly in any way, shape or form. We need this wonderful expression we're seeing right now in Washington that makes us so much stronger.

Charlie Rose: What do you want to do now?

Jack Welch: My future's gonna be to try and build -- working with CEOs, helping them -- build this modern corporation where everyone counts, where people have a chance to grow, where we build leadership teams where you can pick from five or six to make the next CEO, to work on leadership, to work CEOs as partners -- not to run their company, not to meddle in their business -- but to work on their management talent. And I now have six companies. And I'm very excited about it. I think it's gonna be a thrilling time.

Charlie Rose: You know what I think? I think in the end a lot of principles that you reflect here in terms of your own internal beliefs that made a difference in a business have to do with lives, too -- enhancing, fulfilling and maximizing your own life experience.

Jack Welch: You said it better than I'll ever be able to say it. And the life experience of as many people as you can touch. Get in the skin of as many people you can touch and give them the chance to flourish and grow and grow as high and as far and as fast as they can.

Charlie Rose: Jack, Straight from the Gut, JACK WELCH with John A. Byrne.

Jack Welch: Lessons I've Learned Leading a Great Company and Great People.
