Jack Welch - "Leader of the Century" Acceptance Speech (2011)
=============================================================

INTRODUCTION
Jack Welch began his forty-one year career with General Electric in 1960, and in 1981 became the company's eighth Chairman and CEO. Fortune named him "Manager of the Century," and the Financial Times named him one of the three most admired business leaders in the world.

ACCEPTANCE SPEECH

What an honor and distinction to be The Leader of the Century for 2011. Thank you and good afternoon.

In my opinion, business is about people. At the end of the day, people are what matter. In life there are leaders and followers. Through my life I have mastered leadership skills, learning that without trust, you have nothing. I share this award with all who worked with me.

Thank you for seeing my visions. Thank you for supporting my leadership. Being the CEO from 1981 – 2001 had been a great honor.

THE ORGANIZATIONAL LEARNING CULTURE

The fundamental style of working with others for me was primarily to create an organizational learning culture. Risk was rewarded to the employees and for attaining their goals. This was accomplished by implementing changes in the organizational mission, strategy and structure through focusing on qualities such as vision, shared values, ideas, and relationship building.

While enhancing the organizational culture of General Electric, I incorporated personal identification between the employees and myself. I defined shared beliefs reflecting important and essential issues faced by members of the group. Empowering the employees to perform beyond their expectations, I stimulated intelligence within the workforce.

I have been told that I depicted leadership characteristics as a CEO by first, identifying my vision to the team. Second, setting examples by leading by example. Third, communicating a common goal. Fourth, placing high performance values on each member of the group. And last but not least, fifth, respect for employees and explaining that each position within the organization has room for improvement, if they reflect on increasing performance.

BRINGING INFORMALITY TO THE COMPANY

How can we get less formal? Not only was the changing of the reward system important for implementation of the new goals, but I had also brought an air of informality to the company. From the beginning, I requested everyone to call me Jack. My father was Mr. Welch, not me.

When people voice their ideas, the corporation gets less formal. I don't wear ties to work and I have been known to hold informal meetings and encourage everyone to lighten up. Informality inspires people to have more ideas and it is one of the keys to GE's success.

VISION AND COMMUNICATION

My vision incorporated the development of employees, clientele, as well as their suppliers. I communicated with individuals on a consistent basis and at times with hand written notes. To increase pride, motivation and to give everyone a sense of value resulting in building an efficient workplace.

I believe that our relationship was built on trust, honesty, interpersonal skills, and loyalty towards my employees and coworkers. I motivated them with my vision and communication.

IMMERSING IN LEARNING

My vision and desire to transform GE into a learning organization not only helped to educate the employees but, expanded this philosophy inside as well as outside the organization. It empowered all who were associated with this company.

To encourage the company to lead. You and I together found a way to lead. I launched a program for mentoring. The mentoring and coaching programs for the employees proceeded to gear us towards personal development within the company. Every manager was a mentor.

I believe that a disparate conglomerate was transformed into a global teaching organization.

I have to admit and be honest, at this point and time. I was afraid of the internet because I couldn't type. I found the self-confidence to overcome my fear. I found the self-confidence to go head on to make my dreams for GE a reality. I found the self-confidence to lead.

THE KEY TO LEADERSHIP: TRUST

Incorporated within my philosophy was trustworthiness which to me was the key. You must gain the trust of your people. If you don't have their trust, you'll never be a great leader. This aspect was crucial to encourage the employees, customers and suppliers in order for them to trust and accept the beliefs, values and new organizational goals to increase our productivity and performance.

THE RESULTS

In 1980, the year before I became CEO, GE recorded revenues of roughly $26.8 billion. In 2000, the year before I left, they were nearly $130 billion. The company went from a market value of $14 billion to one of more than $410 billion at the time of my retirement. Making it the most valuable and largest company in the world and I could not have done it without my coworkers, employees and management.

WHAT SETS GE APART

What sets GE apart from the rest? It is our culture that used diversity as a boundless source of learning opportunities. It is our culture that used the foundation of understanding the organization's ability to learn and act fast giving us a competitive edge.

Warren Bennis believed that a new leader has to be able to change an organization that is dreamless, soulless and visionless. Someone's got to make a wakeup call. I was that someone.

ARE LEADERS BORN OR MADE?

I then pose the age old question, Are leaders born or made? I can only speak for myself. Through my struggles, failures, triumphs, and other experiences plus throwing in formal education, I transformed into a leader. GE's leader.

I initiated the opening up of a new world within the organization. My vision was shared and became our vision leading to future successes. My goal was to lead, to create a vision and make people passionate about their work.

BEING A TEACHER

My second goal was to be a teacher in a sense. As the company moved forward, everyone had proven an increased awareness of what was right, good, important, and even beautiful. I had planted seeds and watched them flourish. I hope to have touched people's lives and elevated their needs for achievement and self-actualization.

WHAT MAKES A GREAT LEADER?

I ask you now, what makes a great leader? I believe that we need to do things that build people's self-confidence. It's all about praising others and getting excited about their victories. That's what makes a great leader.

I personally got my first taste of leadership from the scrappy, aggressive kids in the neighborhood playing endless games and sports. I learned to exercise leadership, involve everyone and to be flexible.

THE FUTURE

The GE of the future will be based on the cherished values that drive us today, mutual trust. Our dream, our plan, was simple then and it is up to you to carry the torch to future greatness. Strive for self-confidence, Strive to learn and Strive for a better future.

Today, you bestowed upon me a title that will forever be close to my heart. As we conclude this special occasion, a chance to glance back for a moment to see the progression of GE, I have just six words to say. We've come a long way baby!
