Jack and Suzy Welch Interview: Leadership, Truth and Trust
Knowledge at Wharton Podcast Transcript
============================================================

Knowledge at Wharton: As somebody from a blue-collar background, I had a lot of fun going through this book. I enjoy books talking about how people can really get a handle on their lives, and that seems to be a lot of what you guys talked about.

Suzy Welch: Well, the book has three parts. The first part is about winning the game — winning at strategy, and figuring out how to get your company aligned. The second part of the book is about building a great team — we call it a "WOW Team" — taking into account all the different types of managers, all the types of employees that exist in the world today. And the third part is all about growing a great career. And that's hard these days. I mean, it's getting harder and harder. So, you're right, we do cover the real-life aspects of working and coming at it from three different angles.

Knowledge at Wharton: It's a much different economy now than it was in 2007. What's the biggest mistake you think companies are making today?

Jack Welch: Well, it's tough out there. And the big deal out there is engagement. Are employees being engaged? So, from two standpoints, this book tries to deal with the employee — how they can become more engaged? And the manager — how they can get the employee more engaged? Gallup just came out with this month's poll, pretty consistent with the last three or four years since the recession: "Only 35% of the people polled feel they're engaged at work." Imagine going into a game with 65% of your team not turning on to play. It's a big problem.

Knowledge at Wharton: It seems as though there has been a bit of a fundamental shift — and maybe it's in some respects, generational with more millennials getting into the work force — that companies understand that the people you have are even more valuable now than they were 20 years ago. You don't want to lose them. You don't want to have to spend all the time at HR and rehire people and fill slots and take all that time. It just drags down the company.

Suzy Welch: And yet at the same time, the people at work have seen their jobs pulled out from underneath them since the 2008 recession. They've just seen layoffs and down-sizings. They've seen whole industries shut down because of fundamental technology changes. So, it's true, companies do understand how valuable these great people are. But at the same time, individuals are saying, "I'm not going to be at any company forever. I'm my own brand. I'm my own business. And I'm going to go where the going's good."

Jack Welch: People want meaning in their work. They spend all their time at their work and they want to have purpose for it. And they want to know what's in it for them.

Knowledge at Wharton: You published Winning about a decade ago, and since then, you've been doing a variety of different things, going around the globe and having conversations, doing talks and conferences. You mentioned in the new book that the process has been an unbelievable learning experience for you.

Jack Welch: We've talked to over a million people in the last 10 years at differing locations around the world. And over and over again, we see frustrated workforces. And we see lack of engagement. We don't see an alignment between coming to work, winning, and having fun. And we try in this book to look at it from two sides: the manager's side and the employee's side. We give an angle to each one to try and enhance the life experience at work.

Suzy Welch: And just get the fun back in work. Because if work's not fun, then 40 hours a week, you're just slogging away? That stinks.

Knowledge at Wharton: In the book, you say that people not only should find a job, they should find a job that they like, that they really love.

Suzy Welch: We call it more than that. We call it your area of destiny. We urge people to build their careers at that intersection of what they're uniquely good at — some people are good at a lot of things, but you are uniquely good at something — and what you love to do. And if you can identify those two things and you can say, OK, what's at the intersection of them, then you're in your area of destiny. If you're not working there, you've got to work your way towards there. Otherwise, it's really a grind.

Knowledge at Wharton: Are people in general feeling a little bit better now than they did back in 2007?

Jack Welch: 2007, no. 2008, yes. And from the beginning to now, there's a little better feeling. The problem is, that managers still are not transparent enough in today's world.

So, when we ask people in an audience, "How many of you know where you stand, where do you fit in your company, where are you — what's your trajectory forecast to be?", the answer we get is: I don't know. And when asked to raise their hands in an audience of thousands, you don't get 10% or 15% who say they know where they stand. They don't. Unless an employee knows where they're going, it's a tough way to spend the day.

Knowledge at Wharton: If you don't have that knowledge — and part of it is the transparency issue – plus a passion for what you do, you can go through life just slogging away and not enjoying it.

Suzy Welch: It stinks. And it happens just way too often. But that's why it's imperative for you as an individual to identify your area of destiny and to work there. And if you're not in it, go find it and live in it. And that's why it's imperative for people who lead teams — whether the team has three people, 30 people, 300,000 people, it doesn't make any difference — it's your job as a leader to tell people where they stand so they know if they're doing great or if they need to change in some ways or if they need to find other work. The fact that people sort of sleepwalk through their jobs is just criminal.

Knowledge at Wharton: And a lot of that now really does fall on the C-suite, even more so today than ever. Could the CEOs, CFOs essentially hold themselves separate from the guts of the operation?

Jack Welch: No. No, no, no. It's even more so today. I agree. But the winning companies back in those days, the executives had their hands dirty, were in there, were transparent, let everybody know where they stood.

Knowledge at Wharton: Was that your key?

Jack Welch: That's my whole philosophy. Every quarter I sat down and said, "Here's what I like about what you're doing. And here's what you need to improve." Little card, hand-written, four times a year.

Knowledge at Wharton: That's fantastic.

Jack Welch: Yup.

Knowledge at Wharton: Why have we lost that?

Jack Welch: We haven't lost it. Technology has not done us a lot of favors in terms of socialization. It's done a lot of favors in terms of speed and some other areas, but the human equation's a little less.

Suzy Welch: And upwards of 35% of people work remotely now, some or all of the time. You used to sort of know where people stood because you could see them, feel them, interact with them daily. Now with remote work it's harder but even more important to be transparent about where people stand.

KEY THEMES FROM THIS INTERVIEW:
- Employee engagement is the #1 challenge — only 35% of workers feel engaged
- Find your "area of destiny" — the intersection of what you're uniquely good at and what you love
- Leaders MUST tell people where they stand — it's a moral obligation
- Transparency and candor are non-negotiable leadership qualities
- Work should be fun and meaningful — if it's not, something is wrong
- Hand-written quarterly feedback cards — simple but powerful
- People want meaning, purpose, and to know "what's in it for them"
- The human equation matters more than technology in leadership
