Optimism Has No Place
in Accounting
By Charles T. Munger  April 4, 2002
The fiasco at Enron had two causes: (1) perverted
"financial engineering" that portrayed failure as
progress and (2) generally accepted accounting
principles that practically invited delusion and fraud.
The faults of those who misled now get much
attention and create demands for greater criminal
penalties. But the faults of generally accepted
accounting principles are more important, because
changing accounting rules, and the way they are
adopted, has a greater potential for preventing Enron-
type disasters.
Fools and knaves, like those at Enron, will always be
with us and will be particularly active where big
money can be made -- for instance, in reporting ever-
higher earnings.
Therefore, accounting rules must make it very
difficult for fools and knaves to fake profits and net
assets. Every retailer knows that his "shrink rate"
from stealing depends on his maintaining a system
that makes it hard for anyone to get away with theft.
Similarly, sound accounting must make it difficult for
corporations to get away with presenting failure as
success.
A rule-making system that instead makes misuse of
numbers easy operates like a retailing system without
cash registers. Troubles are sure to come in each
instance, no matter what the criminal penalties,
because neither system insists on the margin of safety
demanded by, say, engineering, which seeks to
prevent damage from inevitable human foibles. For
instance, engineering, reacting to many avoidable
deaths in surgery, created anesthesia machines that
do not permit operators to reduce oxygen delivery to
zero. Wise accounting rules must display similar
shrewdness in preventing undesirable accounting.
The way to get maximum safety from accounting rules
is to force a pessimistic outlook. In the long term,
huge public benefits are to be gained, with almost no
public dangers, from pessimistic accounting, while
optimistic accounting is a public menace.
Seldom has this been better demonstrated than in the
case of Enron, where optimistic accounting of its
derivatives trading resulted in a "front-ending" of too
much dubious and uncollected revenue into earnings.
In the first part of this charade, generally accepted
accounting principles allowed "marked to market"
valuations, based on defective information about
market prices and inadequate allowance for the risks
of clearing trades. Later, hundreds of turgid pages of
accounting rules were used to justify determining
earnings on a "mark to model" basis, in which
"model" prices were calculated by the very traders
subject to audit while they were paid bonuses based
on reported profits.
The system of generally accepted accounting
principles is defective because the desires of
accounting firms and the wishes of their clients make
it so. Moreover, because significant parts of the
system are rotten to the core, the trouble will not be
limited to firms that engaged in derivatives trading or
hired the accounting firm Arthur Andersen. Huge
vested interests love misleading accounting. And the
Securities and Exchange Commission, even under a
would-be reformer like Arthur Levitt, can't bring
about much reform because it is deterred by
politicians serving the vested interests.
To so state the problem suggests a solution: placing
the control of accounting much farther away than it
now is from the influence of accounting firms,
corporations and politicians.
Thus, our model for accounting rule-making should
be first some new control body similar to but even
Opinions newsletter
Thought-provoking opinions and
commentary, in your inbox daily.
Sign up
more independent than the Federal Reserve System.
Second, the SEC must be required to enforce the
standards established by the new rule-setters.
These rule-makers should be at least as expert,
determined and virtuous as Paul Volcker was when he
tamed inflation. They should also be less removable
than the head of the Fed. After all, folly often is not
appraised as such by those who profit from it, and
eliminating it will be painful for some.
Some people think that, to correct accounting, we
merely need some new committee or some increase in
power for the SEC. But these ideas have failed, time
after time, because they are equivalent to trying to
influence an elephant with a peashooter. We need a
stronger remedy.
The writer is vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.
